---
title: Every Breath a Kiss
author: Natalia Theodoridou
issue: Issue Fifteen, May 2024
description: "He thought drowning would feel blissful. Scary at first, the panic of breathlessness, but then pleasant and mostly serene. He had already decided that, when the time came, he would be eclipsed from this life with a mangled <em>Manfred</em> quote: &quot;It is not so difficult to die, after all.&quot;<p>It was not peaceful.</p><p>The salt stung the inside of his torso, his ribs turned to knives that sliced him open. His very blood felt like an attack: an enemy of his own making. He swallowed mouthful after mouthful of seawater. His throat burned, his stomach distended to bursting. The sound of the ocean filled his ears: a beast, roaring with aquatic laughter. Manfred? Who's Manfred?</p>" 
shortdescription: "He thought drowning would feel blissful. Scary at first, the panic of breathlessness, but then pleasant and mostly serene. He had already decided that, when the time came, he would be eclipsed from this life with a mangled <em>Manfred</em> quote: &quot;It is not so difficult to die, after all.&quot;<p>It was not peaceful.</p><p>The salt stung the inside of his torso, his ribs turned to knives that sliced him open. His very blood felt like an attack: an enemy of his own making. He swallowed mouthful after mouthful of seawater. His throat burned, his stomach distended to bursting. The sound of the ocean filled his ears: a beast, roaring with aquatic laughter. Manfred? Who's Manfred?</p>"
category: FICTION
date: "2024-05-29T01:04:00.000Z"
path: "/every-breath-a-kiss"
featured: false
available: true

---

He thought drowning would feel blissful. Scary at first, the panic of
breathlessness, but then pleasant and mostly serene. He had already
decided that, when the time came, he would be eclipsed from this life
with a mangled *Manfred* quote: "It is not so difficult to die, after
all."

It was not peaceful.

The salt stung the inside of his torso, his ribs turned to knives that
sliced him open. His very blood felt like an attack: an enemy of his own
making. He swallowed mouthful after mouthful of seawater. His throat
burned, his stomach distended to bursting. The sound of the ocean filled
his ears: a beast, roaring with aquatic laughter. Manfred? Who's
Manfred?

But then, the strong limbs, the pull, the mouth on his—a kiss and a
breath wrapped in one. The glimpse of a golden tail. The wide-set eyes,
and the question within them.

He let himself drift into a state viscous and dark, without answering.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

He opens his eyes, now, fleeing images that make little sense: blood,
blood, and music. Organs in the caves, heartbeats and body-beats, and
fins, and fishtails. His body feels spent, his limbs loosened from their
sockets. The rock rough under his flesh. A man held together by a wish,
or nothing at all.

He's washed up on a rock formation in the quieter part of the bay. The
cliff is still visible from here; he looks for a familiar silhouette up
there, imagines him searching the waves below for signs of life. There's
no one.

The sun beats down on his body. He lowers his gaze.

The creature is half submerged in the water below. Its arms—human,
muscled, hairless—wrapped around a rock for purchase, its tail
glinting goldly under the surface, disappearing into the depth below.

"Why did you save me?" His voice is cracked, his throat raw.

The creature fixes him with its lidless eyes. Its face so human that it
looks almost familiar: the sharp cheekbones, the wide forehead, the
tangled hair. Its lips thick, plump. The man traces his own, recalling
the feeling of those lips on his mouth, the briny breath deep in his
lungs, filling him with life he didn't want.

"Nobody wants to die," the creature replies. Its voice comes as a low
rasp, clumsy with lack of use, as if it's unaccustomed to the feeling of
air moving through its lungs. It stares at him with its uncanny gaze.
"You didn't."

Since he was a boy, in truth. He'd wanted to die since he was a boy. The
excuse was different each time, and the reason unknown to him still.
"You are mistaken," he says. He pushes himself up from the rock and the
creature tenses; afraid, perhaps, that he might throw himself into the
waves again and all its efforts will have been wasted. But he doesn't.
He simply rests his head in his palms, fleeing the relentless light of
the sun. It still worms its glare between his fingers and stings his
eyes. He lets his hands fall to his lap.

"Fine, then," the creature says. A smile, quick and strange, passes over
its face. "Try again. I won't stop you this time." It pauses. "I
apologize," it says then, "for the kiss." It slips whole into the sea,
and is gone.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

He stays on his rock until night falls, looking at the wide expanse of
water around him, the dark mirror of the sky. He should be dead. He lies
down and lets the hardness of the rock dig into his back. He shivers in
his thin shirt and, in a haze, remembers losing his waistcoat to the
waves. Counts the flickering stars.

A glint in the dark catches his eye, a splash out of place. Upright
again, he turns. The creature looks up at him from the water, hair
plastered to its skull, dark with wet. Again it doesn't ask its
question, but he answers it anyway.

"A man can be too tired to try again."

The creature hoists itself out of the water and onto the rock below with
the strength of its arms and a fierce swing of its tail. He can see all
of it now: the gilled neck, the long-nailed fingers, the strong, naked
torso fading into a tail scaled gold and green. It hands him a bundle of
pale meat wrapped in seaweed. "Eat," the creature says.

He takes it, and that seems to satisfy his peculiar benefactor. He's
surprised to find the meat inside is cooked. It's delicate and filling,
if slightly too salty. "What should I call you?" he asks, chewing.

The mer creature offers him a flask of sweet water.

"Fen," it says. "My name is Fen. I am male."

He steals another glance at the creature. "Lazlo," he replies. He
consumes the meat in small bites and then proceeds to eat the seaweed
wrapper. The taste reminds him of the way his lungs hurt when they were
full of the sea. It makes him gag, but he swallows down the nausea and
finishes it nonetheless. "You shouldn't have stopped me. You had no
right." Something like anger bursts through his navel and up towards his
sternum. Something like gratitude, too.

Fen climbs to the top of the rock, no part of him left in the water now.
He looks out of place, but not vulnerable. He sits next to Lazlo, his
body glistening in the light of the stars.

Lazlo pulls back as Fen puts a daring palm on his chest, planting in him
a quavering he cannot control.

"I heard your heart's call," Fen says. "It was not the call of a heart
that wishes for death."

The gall. To speak such words without permission, no matter how true.
"What do you know of my heart?" Lazlo snaps.

That smile again, that flash—there one moment and then gone again. "My
home is the Drowned Man's Bay, after all," the merman says. "People jump
to their deaths all the time here."

And then Fen's arm is around Lazlo's neck. A thrash, a push—and
they're falling.

The water closes blackly around them. Fen's grip is like a vice on
Lazlo's wrist, and the mighty flapping of his tail leads them to the
deep, where little light penetrates. Lazlo fights and shouts, abandoning
what precious air is still in him. Fen faces him then, something
astonished in his round eyes. He stops, draws Lazlo in. Their heads
level, he waits for the man to calm down. Then, he nods, and Lazlo nods
back. The merman takes the back of Lazlo's head gently in his palm and
reaches for him until their mouths meet. Then, air floods Lazlo's lungs,
rich in oxygen, as if freshly plucked from the sky above, and sweet. A
kiss, and not.

Lazlo holds Fen's breath inside and lets the merman guide him home.

Soon, the cold, dark depth erupts in a knot of scales glistening gold
and silver and green. Then arms and hair and faces. Merfolk greet their
brother with a kiss on each of his eyes, and Fen reciprocates the love.
Others hold gently onto Lazlo, pulling him deeper still, laughing after
every breath they kiss into him, their sharp teeth thin and shiny like
needles. They lead him to a cave under a giant slab of rock.

It's half-dark in the grotto that is Fen's home, but there is a large
bed grown with algae, and they deposit Lazlo on it to rest. It is not
deep enough for the pressure to crush him, though he does feel it in his
ears. Fen makes sure he never starves for air. The other merfolk gather
around them, and curious fish do too, pecking at the merfolk's hair and
cleaning their skin where it pimples in the cold. Lazlo settles into the
lulling rhythm of his breath-kisses and looks around him through the
stinging salt; the leviathan of the sea, a burnished mural on the cave
wall, watches over them all. It makes him feel small, this gathering,
like a speck in a world of gods.

He drifts into sleep.

He dreams of lips and exhalations, of hands and arms, of a thousand
thousand names and faces, of oceans and seas, and drowned men breathing
their hearts' desperate call into the dark.

He wakes with Fen's kiss in his lungs, warm and salty. Lazlo shivers in
the merman's embrace and, in return, Fen holds him tighter. Lazlo
reaches to kiss him back, the stolen breaths not stolen at all.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

He doesn't know how long he stays in the grotto with Fen and the other
merfolk. Faint light reaches into the cave with the pace of a slow
lighthouse. He sleeps, and wakes, and sleeps again. Fen teaches him
about the sea, its songs and storms, its harsh embraces. Lazlo considers
how much his life has changed, and how little: he was a man of leisure
before, with nothing to show for his existence but his devotion to the
one he loved. And now?

Somewhere along the way, he realizes he has chosen to stay. His cravat
floats in tatters, like a strange, pale eel coiled around his neck.

Other merfolk take Fen's place when he needs to go away to feed, and
Lazlo misses him with a pain in the centre of his chest. They teach him
how to let the tiny fish nibble his hair and scour his skin clean. They
teach him to swim like they do, with his eyes open and his hands at his
hips, lace cuffs swaying behind him, and how to tell apart the dreams of
salt from the dreams of the land.

When Fen comes back, he carries with him delicacies and gifts—the sea
urchins' orange flesh that he scoops out with his fingers and drops into
Lazlo's mouth, bite by bite, or dead shells he places on Lazlo's ears to
teach him how to listen to the call of the sea. Lazlo accepts the food
and the gifts with grace but then presses his ear against Fen's chest
instead. There's one call he's more interested in learning.

He comes to the surface for breath now and then, and Lazlo relishes the
opportunity to share a few spoken words with Fen more than the freshness
of the breath. They discuss the stories sailors tell of merfolk when
they sojourn on land—the lure of their songs, their empty promises,
the death of their embrace. False, mostly, Fen says, and Lazlo laughs.
The sound comes strange to his ears. More and more, the air seems too
coarse up here, too hot, and his skin feels like parchment that might
burn under the sun.

Eventually, they venture out beyond the bay together, past the shallows,
where the currents are so much colder and where giant jellyfish roam.
They watch the ships traverse the horizon and listen to the sailors'
clipped calls, then dive to pick through the traces of their passage:
pieces of mirror, a chest of cloth, chipped china cups. Lazlo remembers
the long afternoons he used to spend having tea, listening to the
distant rumbling of the sky and his lover's talk of business ventures.
He thinks of his return home, then, but every time the idea seems more
and more far-fetched.

He loses his cravat.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

One day, while resting on the rock where they exchanged their first
words, Lazlo gazes towards the cliff that looms over Drowned Man's Bay,
and sees the dark figure of a man scouring the sea for signs of life.

He gasps despite himself.

"What is it?" Fen asks with his land lilt, and follows Lazlo's eyes to
the cliff. "Who is he?"

He recognizes the love of his dry land life: the delicate shoulders, the
strong posture, the expensive clothes.

But who is he? Some stranger, he thinks, looking for someone else.

Still, he delays. Reaches for Fen and draws him close, steals the breath
from his mouth without needing to. Fen smiles and licks his lips with
his small, rough tongue, but the question remains.

Lazlo looks away, at the sea. The waves, the mourning gulls above.

The merman lies on the rock, drawing Lazlo gently down with him. His
kiss is slow now, lingering. Lazlo savours it.

But then Fen glances at the figure on the cliff again. "Will you tell me
now?" he asks in his drowned voice.

Lazlo avoids the merman's gaze. The sun casts diamonds on the waves, the
rest of the world lost in the glare. The breeze bears the tang of open
water, and of rain-drenched stone far away. "We loved each other. Being
apart—for whatever reason—was nothing short of agony. Then he
decided to get married to the daughter of a well-off family." He pauses,
swallows, the air like gravel in his throat. "Perhaps I wanted to hurt
him." He runs his fingers through Fen's hair. It's drying in the sun,
the crust of salt turning it to rope. "A silly thing to do."

Fen jumps off the rock to briefly wet his tail. When he returns, he lies
on his side next to Lazlo. He traces the length of Lazlo's torso from
the base of his neck to his crotch with a long-nailed finger.

"And you?" Lazlo asks. He owes an explanation, too. "You don't go around
saving every fool who jumps off that cliff. Why me?"

Then Fen tells him the story of the sailor boy thrown overboard by his
shipmates, long ago. How he fought in the waves, how desperately he
wanted to live.

"The call of your heart reminded me of that boy's," Fen says. "I'd give
anything to hear it again." He places a kiss on Lazlo's bellybutton. "To
keep hearing it."

Lazlo allows himself to shiver. "What happened to him?" he asks.

And Fen tells him.

Some time passes in silence.

"What do merfolk do when they wish to die?" Lazlo asks then.

"When merfolk wish for death, the call of the sea turns to lead in their
heart and drags them to the deep," Fen explains.

As he listens, Lazlo thinks he should be dead. And yet, there's the
memory of Fen's mouth between his legs. All the water in the world
cannot wash his smell from Lazlo's nostrils, his taste from Lazlo's
throat. And the long nights, hour after hour of Fen's hands on him and
in him.

"Take me under again," he says.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

They grow a habit of swimming around the grotto in the middle of the
night, when the moon shines down through the water, vividly green. Lazlo
looks up and stares at the shadow of the island hanging over him, the
rocks and the trees waving in the heights. It comforts him to see the
old world, the familiar world, filtered through this liquid lens. Fen's
arm always around his neck. He turns to face him, heart beating against
chest. His eyes, he thinks fondly, are as golden as his tail.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

It happens at a time when Lazlo thinks they've never been closer. He
feels happy, and then immediately inadequate, unworthy. He reasons: What
did he ever do for Fen? All he ever did was give up air when he had
already given up air. His skin grows hot, the blood racing through his
veins. He pushes his lover away, rushes out of the cave, and up, towards
the waves and the light. He swims until his muscles tremble in the
current and his skin goes numb with cold. If Fen follows him, he does
not hear him. He can't hear anything above the ruckus of waves against
his ears and the throbbing of his blood in his temples.

Then he sees it: a giant jellyfish moving in his direction, its
tentacles iridescent with venom. It reaches for him with its terrible
harpoons, and he doesn't immediately shy away, though his heart beats
furiously in his chest, nothing like lead. He looks at the jellyfish,
and it feels to him like a test. The question returns to him: How much
has he changed, and how little?

He shivers in his indecision, and his body decides for him, despite him,
set in its old, drowning ways. His hand thrusts out to touch the deadly
flesh. He imagines it, then, as panic blooms in his belly: the sharp,
brief pain, the quiet spreading like oil.

But another hand reaches for him. Fen wrenches him out of the
jellyfish's way and down to the depths again. Lazlo's eyes prickle, his
tongue weighs a ton, sluggish with the residue of his melancholy, but
also tingly with something else, something new and unknown to him. They
reach the cave. Sorry, he wants to say, so sorry, I must be broken
somehow, but a wave of desire swallows him instead, and he rolls Fen
onto his back. He demands his breath and finds it rich with the scent of
the ocean. His mind empties, no words are spoken and no other thoughts
formed, except the knowledge of who he is, now: Lazlo, the twice-saved.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

He spends even less time above water after that. The figure on the
cliff—whoever he is—becomes scarcer and scarcer, until he
disappears, or until Lazlo himself forgets to look for him when he goes
up for breath.

His muscles fill in, his body grows accustomed to the constant swimming
and his lungs fond of the kissing breaths. Living becomes easier, and,
because of that, he feels light—or, perhaps, it's the other way
around.

Fen helps him venture further and further away from their reef home,
even into the wide ocean, beyond where the giant jellyfish roam. He
enjoys the coolness of the water on his skin, the way it makes him feel:
alive, awake, a harsh joy without memory bursting in his stomach. He
catches himself thinking thoughts like this: if I were a seabird, I
would croak my call from the highest cliff I could find. And if I were
an oyster, I would let the ocean stream through me and my joy would make
of dirt a tiny, perfect pearl.

Sometimes he forgets, tries to speak to Fen aloud when they're out at
sea, only to have the words stuck in his chest, drowning him. "I love
you" are the choking words, and he already knows what Fen will say:
"What good is love, if we're living? What use are your lovewords to me,
if I can put my ear to the call of the beating heart in your chest? Love
is not the reason to live; life is."

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

Waking up with Fen's body in his arms is like coming up for breath. It
doesn't matter where they are; but, tonight, they are on the rock where
they first met. Lazlo's skin is grainy with salt, the merman's tail
twined around his legs. The moon lingers in the sky above, watching them
as they lounge together in the night air. Fen slips into the water,
unafraid of leaving him alone anymore. Tells him, "I won't be long."
He'll catch fish for them both, bring it back wrapped in seaweed like
that very first time.

In the quiet, Lazlo looks up at the cliff face towering over the Bay. He
sees the shapes of trees he can no longer name, clouds drifting in
invisible currents, night birds swimming across the surface of the sky.

A splash far off brings his attention back to the sea. Something fell.
Lazlo's body tenses, reaches for the sound with a leap into the cold. He
swims towards the thrashing body, the gasping, open mouth, the churning
waves, until his arm is around the young man's waist, his hand grasping
the man's hair to keep his head above water. He pulls him without
thinking, his muscles doing what they know to do until they're both
splayed on the rock, gasping.

The rescued man coughs, spits salt water onto the rocks, retches. Then,
he turns to Lazlo and recoils.

Lazlo imagines what he must look like to this man: lips cracked by the
salty habit of the sea. Hair braided with seaweed and coral. A face too
hollowed-out to be human. Slowly, Lazlo reaches out a hand, strokes the
man's sun-kissed skin.

The man flinches. "You can't save me!" he shouts. Pleads. He moves to
throw himself from the rock again.

"Wait," Lazlo begs, an abyss yawning open in the pit of his stomach.
"Please." A word he was taught underwater, breath after breath. "I have
something to give you."

Lazlo struggles to his knees and reaches for the man again, breath saved
in his lungs. A gift for this sad youth who—he understands—only
tried to drown because he wanted so desperately to live. He takes a
moment to look at him, to take in his beauty: the dark eyes rimmed with
red, the white teeth, the curls cascading down to his delicate
clavicles.

"Why did you have to save me?" the man asks, cries.

"It is not so difficult to die," Lazlo replies.

He draws the man to him as he lets his body slip into the sea. Their
lips meet. Then the water closes above them, briny as a kiss.


<p style="text-align: center;">© 2024 Natalia Theodoridou </p>


