---
title: A Eulogy for Patience
authors:
    - Chloe Smith
issue: Issue Eighteen, November 2024
description: "" 
shortdescription: "&quot;This can't be what you want,&quot; the oldest and most powerful suitor says. His mouth is stained red. He wipes it with the back of his hand, jerks his head towards the chaos that breaks across the room, the shouts and wild gestures, the spilled wine and half-eaten food. <p>&quot;They will beggar you with this waste. Is this a proper legacy for your husband's riches?&quot; His words are soft, but his grin curves like a scorpion's tail. </p><p>I refuse to look. I keep my spine stiff and tilt my chin down to stare into the leaping flames in the hearth.</p>"
category: FICTION
date: "2024-11-18T01:02:00.000Z"
path: "/a-eulogy-for-patience"
featured: false
available: true

---

<p style="text-align: right;"><em>5198 words</em></p>

"This can't be what you want," the oldest and most powerful suitor says.
His mouth is stained red. He wipes it with the back of his hand, jerks
his head towards the chaos that breaks across the room, the shouts and
wild gestures, the spilled wine and half-eaten food.

"They will beggar you with this waste. Is this a proper legacy for your
husband's riches?" His words are soft, but his grin curves like a
scorpion's tail.

I refuse to look. I keep my spine stiff and tilt my chin down to stare
into the leaping flames in the hearth.

He leans closer. I can smell the wine on his breath. It was a good
harvest, transformed now into sour vapors and grasping hands. I draw
mine farther away.

"You must choose one of us," he says. "Choose while you still can."
There is a crash behind him, answered by hoots of laughter. He
continues, "While you still have goods of value left."

The wine makes him transparent. As if I had any doubt.

I take a slow sip from my own cup and force my eyes to meet his. I smile
demurely at him. Sadly.

"If only I could heed your wise advice, dear friend. Truly, I understand
its urgency." As if any but a fool would not. "But my sacred duties yet
forbid me to act. If I accept, as you ask me to, that my husband is
truly," I almost choke on the word, "*dead*, then I must honor his
passing before I consider taking another lord. I need time to prepare
and write his eulogy." I draw myself up and away. I hold my duty as a
cloak of inviolability.

I think it may not be enough, that he will dispense with this veil of
courtesy and simply take what he wants. But I forget: my status is part
of what he covets. The honor of a loyal widow, of one of the oldest
houses on this island, is too great a prize to be destroyed in the
taking.

"Of course, dear lady. You inspire us all with your devotion." He drains
his cup and holds it out again. "But you cannot refuse a man a sop for
his disappointment."

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

The guests carouse far into the night. They drink and eat, sing and
boast and argue. They vomit in corners and tease the old dog, throwing
bones at his head where he lies before the hearth fire, laughing when he
snaps and cringes away.

The serving girl knows not to cringe, not to snap like the dog when they
pull on her elbow or her waist, when their hands threaten to tip the
pitcher in her grip or trace the shape of her body beneath its covering
shift. She's mastered the art of the teasing smile, the flattered laugh.
It's easier that way, safer. She's learned the hard way, from pinched
skin and harsh words, from the cuts and bruises she washed in the salt
tides of the sea. She saw a fellow servant knocked to the floor with a
drunken fist for resisting the guests' advances. That girl is her sister
in all but blood. They have carded the same wool and scrubbed the same
pots, together under the absent lord's roof for all the years of their
young lives. Now her sister crouches in the kitchen, nursing an ill-set,
aching shoulder and turning the roasting spit, a crone before her time.

This girl will not let herself be destroyed like that. Her body is all
she can claim in this world. She cannot let it be broken, so she must
let it be used.

That is what she tells herself, at least, when she follows the beckoning
guest into the shadows beyond the great hall. He is young among the
suitors, his appetites unregulated, even by their standards. She tries
to be soft, to let his urgency spend itself without tearing her apart.
He gasps and laughs, breath hot and sour on the back of her neck. Then
he stumbles back into the light and merriment of the hall. She turns and
watches him recede as she pulls down her skirts. Around his silhouette,
the glow of firelight flickers, fuel in the hearth piled high, even at
this hour.

She wishes the fire would rise up and burn this whole great house. She
hopes the heat of her anger, banked inside her, will burn away whatever
seed he left in her belly.

At last the house quiets. Some of the guests depart for the night, while
others have drunk themselves insensate. They lie on the floor of the
hall. The servant girl tries to clean the spaces around them.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

In my chamber late at night, I sit at my writing desk, a single lamp
wavering.

I spread a fresh sheet of papyrus in front of me. My pen is sharp, its
tip black with ink.

I cannot bear to write this eulogy yet.

Instead, I write myself a story. The story of my heart's hope.

*My husband returns, alive and vigorous. The gods of sky and sea smile
on him. He throws off the ragged robe of travel (a disguise, no
doubt—he was always enamored of subterfuge, making his plans more
complex than they needed to be) and stands tall in the heart of our
home. He calls loyal men to his side, and they fight like heroes out of
legend. They decimate the vulgar interlopers who have aspired to take
his place. They kill the poor fools who fed and served the suitors
without question. He restakes his claim to lordship—and then he turns
to me.*

*"But why did you hide your face for so long, my lord?" I ask. "I would
have welcomed you with open arms from the moment you first set foot on
our island."*

*"How else could I have defeated these miscreants?" He jerks a head at
the carnage staining our home. "It is through my great cleverness that I
have returned a victor."*

*I smile. It is his vanity, but so characteristic, so familiar, that it
breeds tenderness.*

*He adds, "And how else could I be assured that you had remained
loyal?"*

The smile fades from my face. I scratch the reed pen across the words,
drowning them in wasted ink. Even as I dream the best of all possible
endings, I cannot but imagine the mistrust. My reason—remembering my
husband's nature, even through the rosy haze of nostalgia—warns me
that will come too, should he return.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

The next day, the feasting continues. The servant girl runs the gauntlet
of the hall. She goes from the kitchen to the storeroom and back again.
The lady of the house meets her on the way, and the girl ducks her head,
clutching a heavy amphora in her arms like an infant. She thinks the
widow must see the resentment in her eyes.

"How are our stores?" the lady asks.

*Raided.* "Wanting." The widow must know both answers. She is in the
hall every night, watching the feasting. How could she not anticipate
the empty shelves, the jars of oil so light a child could shift them?

The girl stifles the emotion that hums through her limbs with all the
energy of divine lightning. What selfishness for the mistress to resist,
to prolong all their suffering.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

As the evening lengthens, I say I must return to my writing. The eulogy
is not yet done.

This time, though, when I hold my pen over a new page, what emerges is
the story of my heart's bitterness.

*My husband is delayed. Beautiful women—witches, goddesses, and
princesses—are overcome by his charms. He dallies with them, seduced
and seducing. The ties of love and duty that draw him home grow thin as
spider silk, out of sight and out of mind. Amorous adventures are no
stain on a hero's journey. They are to be expected. He may love these
others, yet leave them and walk away unchanged.*

I cross the words out with such urgency that I break the nib. I spend
the rest of the time before I sleep carving new reeds. Each flake that
drops away beneath my careful knife is a tear I will not shed. I refuse
to weep at the unfairness of the world.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

The serving girl sleeps curled around her sister's back, the two of them
like stacked shells on their narrow pallet. Her sister shifts, moans
when splintered bone pains her. It wakes the girl in the steely light
before dawn. The kitchen fire has grown cold, its cinders faded to flaky
white ash. She kindles it anew and then goes out to the well.

The swineherd joins her there. He has blood beneath his nails, and he
smells of pig shit, even this early in the morning. She pours out her
first urnful of water for him. He shakes out his wet hair, droplets
flying out around them both, catching in the rising light.

"Who do you want her to choose?" he asks.

"What does it matter?" She replies. She has seen the measure of these
men and knows them all to be wanting. "They are all pigs."

The swineherd inclines his head, not quite conceding her point. "Pigs
know where their best interests lie, at least. Do you want to know what
I think?"

He clearly wants to tell her.

"The oldest one is clever," he says, voice warming. "He's watching the
others, watching the mistress. He's waiting for her to run out of
patience with their feasts and fucks. A man like that, who can run the
animals before him in a herd, let them clear a path for him—I respect
that."

*Is that why you butcher for him and the others, night after night?* She
wants to ask. *Why you thin your drove of pigs without thought for the
future?* She can't fault him, though. They all offer up flesh, in one
way or another, bribing gods or men to let them live another day, to
hold onto hope. He wouldn't want the new lord of the house to remember
the swineherd as one who scrimped and shorted the feasters, as one who
ever begrudged the new master's presence.

She lifts the sloshing urn to her hip. "I don't trust anyone who treats
his companions as animals to be used."

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

The next night, the men seated along the tables clamor in chorus,
deafening me: "Choose! Choose! Choose!"

They beat their hands faster and faster, until the rhythm breaks into
cacophony, and one man falls from his seat, overcome with hilarity and
wine. They do not quiet until I stand and repeat my promise and my
excuses—*decision, eulogy, duty, patience*. Their silence, as they all
weigh my words, becomes oppressive as their endless noise. Their eyes on
me are hopeful, speculative, greedy—except for the oldest and most
powerful. He glares, angry that I have shared this promise he thought
reserved for him.

My lies grow dangerous. I must watch him. But what good will watching
do?

I retreat to my room to write the story of my heart's prayer.

*From the gold-and-ivory halls of the celestial palace, the gods look
down and see my virtues. They see my overabundance of patience, through
all the years of my non-widowhood: alone, but without a widow's
autonomy; caretaker, but not mistress of her husband's house. The gods
deign to touch my life, as—the stories go—they often do for heroes.
They reward the hospitality I have poured out like lifeblood beneath a
butcher's knife.*

A footstep in the doorway. I look up, my breath catching with
unreasonable hope. Some god has stepped from the poets' tales and into
the confines of this household to offer me deliverance.

But no, it is the hard-eyed serving girl. She holds yet another cup of
wine.

"*He* sent it up to you with his regards," she says, "before he left for
the night."

She doesn't need to tell me who *he* is. In the privacy of my chamber,
my tongue breaks free. "How generous," I say, "to offer me yet another
cup of my own wine. Not all the wine I could have saved if he and his
fellows simply respected my wishes and went away." Nevertheless, I reach
for the cup.

The surface of the liquid shivers as the girl holds it out, like ocean
waves lifting with the sea god's wrath. Her own words escape her lips'
boundary, then, harsh and truthful. "They would all leave, if you would
only choose one. If you would let go of *all this—*" Her gesture takes
in the crumpled, ink-stained papyrus sheets littering the floor, the bed
I've kept cold for twenty years. Wine sloshes down like an offering, and
I snatch the cup from her trembling hands.

"How can I let go?" I ask her. "How can I choose among the many heads of
this monster? And why should I? They call me widow, but how do they
know? The only surety is to wait." I look back at the unfinished writing
on my table. "I've prayed for better choices, for the gods to reshape my
fate."

"Prayed for better fate." The girl's voice cracks. She spits out a sound
that might be a laugh or a sob. "Don't flatter yourself. That's not for
you. That's for heroes, for kings. Maybe for maidens. There are no good
choices for us."

She swallows, stills her shaking. I can see the effort it takes to reel
herself back in, careful as winding new-spun thread.

She is right, though. Have the gods ever helped one such as I? Would
they even know how? I am not a warrior in battle, to be protected by
divine wind or cloaking fog from the spear of an enemy. Seasons have
passed, and nothing has changed.

I feel tears start behind my own eyes. "It seems such cruelty that the
gods would trap me, would ask this sacrifice of me, after all these
years of loyal devotion."

Now the look she turns on me is pure scorn. "Do you think we have not
already sacrificed? The security of this house and the people in it, our
bodies and our goods—and all you've been able to protect are your
flesh and your honor. I don't wonder if the gods are cruel."

She is right again, and I can't look her in the eye to admit it. "Thank
you for bringing the wine. You should go to your rest now."

After she leaves, I look down at the paper bearing my heart's prayer,
the one that will remain unanswered. Then I feed it to the flame of the
lamp. It is not an offering.

In my wide and lonely bed, I dare to imagine a different ending to my
story.

*I release the long-held dream of my husband. I leave my home under
cover of night.*

*Alone beyond the walls of the house, I make my way to the shore of this
island, the only land I've ever known. I find a boat that will bear me
away, out of this story, beyond the knowledge of the gods. I lift an
oar, ready to steer myself. Towards life or death, it will not matter.
My path will be my own, and I will wait for no one anymore.*

My eyes open on the darkness. I sit up.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

The serving girl banks the hearth fire in the great hall, shadows thick
and heavy all around her, emotions dark and obscure beneath her breast.
She misses the pure anger she felt towards the widow, the resentment of
a woman who won't do what's needful. That anger is still there, but now
she must also carry the memory of the lady's pain, her talk of traps and
sacrifice. The girl hates such self-pity, but she understands. She knows
too well what a trap feels like. If she had the power to resist its
tightening grip, wouldn't she do the same?

Still, when she catches sight of the lady's slender form masked by a
heavy traveling cloak among the shadows, rage burns away her sympathy.
So she will run and leave her suitors to scavenge this house like
wolves.

The serving girl feels the weight of the future, of the destruction and
desecration to come. Her strength, so carefully husbanded for so long,
falters and she sinks to her knees before the banked coals. She catches
her weight on her hands.

She tries to imagine running like the widow—but where would she go on
this tiny land bounded by the god-ruled sea? She claws her fingertips
into the cold, old ashes. Could she rake them down the face of the next
man who reaches for her? Would it do any good? She wants to howl.

This is the fate the gods have brought her: pain and more pain behind
every choice she has. She raises her hands to her face, smears the
hearth ash across her forehead and cheeks. She might as well mourn the
coming losses as try to fight them.

Heat flares, then. It burns from the ashes on her face and hands, flows
along her limbs and kindles at her heart. She reels as the hearth fire
flares inside her skin, a rush of power like nothing she's ever felt
before. She's almost lost within it.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

I get as far as the outer threshold before a voice calls me back,
tangling my limbs and the air in my lungs. I freeze with the door still
open behind me.

Mortals are damned if they look back, but I cannot help myself. I peer
across the courtyard and into the hall beyond. The voice was a
thunderclap, and I look for any sign of movement, men jolted from
besotted sleep to witness my failed escape.

I hear the voice again, and I realize it is no more than a whisper, a
breath against my cheek.

In the shadowed hall, among the insensate forms, flames flicker. A woman
stands at the hearth, firelight glowing against her hair. The sight
pulls me back, unwilling.

It is the serving girl, standing taller, prouder than I have ever seen
her. But also, it is someone else, a woman whose hair hangs long and
thick and dark as wildfire smoke, whose eyes sear me. My legs weaken,
and I sink down in obeisance. She looks away, reaching out and into the
column of heat above the flames. They leap up around her hand.

"You would let your hearth grow cold." Her voice holds the crackle of
the cookfire and the laughter of family. It is stern authority and
comforting warmth. It is home, lost and longed for, the hope of a child
and the regret of old men. It brings me to tears.

"This is no hearth of mine," I tell her through my choked throat. "I do
not hold it, except by men's forbearance, and now that burns away faster
than summer-dried hay."

"And yet you have held it for twenty years," she answers. "Not your lost
husband, the man whose very shadow has faded from this room. You have
kept the fire alight, gathered the lives around it—servants, herders,
elders and children. You leave them now to cold ashes, to men who will
fight for its gold and flesh and tear the remnants apart between them."

Rage cracks my heart open. It pours out the bitterness of this long,
lonely time. "And what choice did your siblings give me? All my paths
run to emptiness and ruin in the end."

She looks at me directly once more. Her face, that of the girl whose
form she rides, is like a mask. I once saw an ancient, lightning-blasted
tree ablaze within the unchanged cloaking of its bark. Her eyes have the
light of that inferno.

"I tell no stories," she says, "and none are told of me. I do not
promise intervention or retribution. But I will die with these ashes.
The path you've chosen promises that."

She gestures widely and the fire flares up again, illuminating the
sleeping bodies, the dirt and broken furniture. It shines into the rooms
of the servants and retainers, the very young and the very old. Their
sleep is only a brief respite from straining to see which way the coming
ax will fall.

I close my eyes against the brightness, against the shame. "I cannot
spin a story of my victory." My voice is a reedy whisper.

Hers is even lower, thrumming in my bones. "Protect the hearth. Make
that your story." Then she is gone. The fire sinks back to a soft glow.
The serving girl sways and almost topples into it—except I catch her
and wrap my arms around her. She buries her head in my shoulder,
muffling her sobs.

A sleeping man snorts and turns over.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

The next evening, I wait in my chamber as the noise in the hall swells
like an abscess. The servants have emptied the wine stores on my orders,
and the swineherd has butchered another suckling pig—although after he
is done, I order him to take the sows upcountry to the forested hills,
to sleep there as they forage. He is young and foolish. Better he be out
of harm's way. I confer with the serving girl one more time. I see my
desperate intention mirrored in her eyes.

After the pig is stripped of flesh and the guests have grown wobbly and
hard-headed with drink, I descend to the hall. I have put on my richest
necklace, strands of heavy gold and glimmering mother-of-pearl. I wear
my old bride's dress. The rich purple of its dye, traded at my father's
expense from distant Chyria, has not dimmed with all these years. I
think of the hope I felt then, the uncomplicated joy, but those feelings
are faint, as faded as the face of my husband in my mind's eye. These
things will not come again.

The feasting men go wide eyed when they see me. I stop before them, let
them take in the implications of my finery, watch as their mouths
slacken. I let my gaze travel down the sides of the hall, over the
hanging weapons, prizes won by my husband's family long ago—spears and
swords and heavy ax heads.

"I have completed my work," I tell them and unroll the papyrus sheet I
carry. "I shall honor my husband's memory fully with this reading." I
find the predator smile of the oldest suitor at the back of the crowd. I
am sure to look directly at him as I say, "And then I shall choose his
worthy successor."

They note the direction of my gaze. Some faces crease with
disappointment or with frustration, while others, those seated nearest
him, smile in reluctant admiration. Some even reach out to clap him on
the back. Factions have formed among the men in the crowd.

Still, my nerves sing as I swallow, look down at what I've written, wait
for the rustles of anticipation to subside. Then I begin to read.

"*You all remember my husband as a great man. Stories of his clever wits
and of the glories he won in battle persist long after his flesh become
shadow. He needs no eulogy for his greatness to live on. I speak instead
of the space he left behind. An old house, its roots hardy and deep as
olive trees, its people loyal and resilient. We remain, and it is* our
*hearth now, our labors that have kept it..."*

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

The servant girl has worked hard to keep the cups filled tonight,
bestowing smiles, suffering the touches and lingering eyes. She comes
back again and again to the one who had pushed her into the shadows
before. She saves her most winning glances for him, leans over and
breathes into his ear that she thinks he is the finest one there, that
she doesn't understand what the lady of the house is thinking not to
choose him in a heartbeat. He laughs and squeezes and gulps his wine,
earning applause from his tablemates. His appetite stands out even among
this company.

The servant girl moves carefully but quickly as the tenor in the room
grows ever more raucous. She must seem to be everywhere at once, so that
no one will notice the lack of other servants, the old nurse's empty
spot by the hearth. Her sister has gathered them all in the now-empty
storage room, barricaded the door from the inside, with instructions to
remain there until the morning.

The servant girl circles the hearth one more time, topping off a final
toast's worth of vessels. She goes back to her attacker's side as the
widow begins to speak alone. Her words fill the room like wine in the
goblets.

She speaks not of her husband's legacy, but of those who have stewarded
it. The work of swineherd and shepherd, bringing young, struggling
creatures into the world. The bent backs of farmhands harvesting flax
and the calloused fingers that spun it. The arms that turned the spit
and carved the meat, repaired fallen tiles from the roof and washed the
house's walls each spring so that it stands gleaming white on the cliffs
above the sea. She speaks of her own work and care, at the loom and
among the accounts.

And then she speaks of her nights, alone amid the vast, empty expanse of
her marriage bed, as the hearth's embers die, as her limbs soften with
expended effort.

The fire at the hall's center quiets as well. Its rising smoke thickens
until it is a grey white curtain. Odd shapes flicker against its screen.
The serving girl recognizes forms and gestures—shadows playing out the
lady's story. She risks a glance at the man next to her. His jaw is
loose, his eyes hungry. She knows he reads a different tale in the words
and shifting shadows, one in which the lady yearns with unmet
expectations, a vessel waiting to be filled.

The lady's voice is whisper-soft, fading. The hearth light goes. Smoke
thickens the air on all sides. Darkness hangs heavy, a long, breathless
moment.

And then the hearth fire roars to life again, brighter and higher than
any of them could ever stoke it. Flames like white gold fill the hall
with light. It's empty, except for the lady and the serving girl,
standing like cast pillars. They face each other across the hall's
depth, faces mirrored with furious intent.

The serving girl blinks, and the room is as it was. The fire crackles.
Guests shift in their seats. Her attacker glances around, uncertain.

She bends close again, drops a whispered instruction into his ear. "This
is your time." He looks at her, wondering, but then, inspired, he pushes
to his feet.

"Lady! Wait no longer! Don't let your—your fruits wither," he gulps as
all eyes turn to him, but then lifts his jaw and abandons poetry. "Your
body is too fine to lie down alone night after night. Don't wait until
you're old and dry..."

"What—?" "—insults—would never—" Clamor rises across the room.
They cry with shock, with outrage, with jealousy at one of their number
who can speak his desires so baldly, but their voices are thick, slurred
from wine and magic.

Many eyes turn to the oldest suitor, expecting him to frown away this
outburst, to dismiss it as a raucous joke. It is what he's done before.

Instead, when light from the hearth flares up again, it reveals an
answering fire in his eyes. He is drunk on more than wine. The magic of
the lady's words has caught him as well.

He stands, and his voice is slurred. "Impudent pup." He puts out a hand,
and the wall is there, a great ax displayed in pride of place. He tears
it down. Reflected flame glitters along the blade.

The serving girl's suitor hesitates a moment. He almost recognizes the
destruction he courts. No blows have been struck, yet.

But then a strung bow appears in the girl's hand. Is it formed from
smoke and shadow? She reaches out with it. His eyes focus on her. He
takes a staggering step, snatches it and shoves her away so hard that
she stumbles and falls to the floor. He lifts the bow and nocks an
arrow.

Time slows. The servant girl looks up, head ringing and heart full of
fear.

The oldest suitor grins. He stands exposed. Wine and greed and
hearthfire magic have taken his reason and care. They've wrapped him in
certainty that he has only to make a threat and his claim will carry the
day. Behind his bulk, the lady backs away.

Then a log in the hearth snaps. The suitor with the bow jerks at the
sound—and releases his arrow. It flies across the hall, into the
breast of the oldest suitor.

It takes a moment for the archer to realize what he has done, to gasp
and stagger back. It takes only a few moments more for the supporters of
the oldest suitor, his friends and cousins, to scream in outrage. Those
still seated leap up. They press forward or lurch back. They pull more
weapons from the wall, more bows and axes, swords and hunting spears.
Their senses may be muddled by wine, but they understand what's needed
now. Vengeance and counter vengeance burn through the hall.

The serving girl stays down, skuttles backwards to the nearest door, and
then locks it behind her. She has a dire moment, afraid that the lady
didn't make it out. But then they meet in the outer passageway and cry
with relief to see only wine stains and dirt on each other's skirts.
They hold each other tight, close their eyes as the screams and clashes
of battle reach them through the intervening walls, as the firestorm of
violence rages and finally dies away.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

In the evenings, when the meal is done, I sit at my desk in my chamber.
I write no more eulogies. Instead, I tally the health and strengths of
our flocks and herds. I make plans for the future. I consult with the
rest of the household about our stores of grain and cheese, the harvest
of grapes we will send to market and those we will keep for our own use.
The younger women of the house—serving girls they were called once,
although now they serve themselves and each other, as much as anyone
else—come to share a modest cup of wine under the light of my lamp.
One of them says that an old beggar came to the door today. She gave him
a good meal and let him rest a while by the hearth, before sending him
on. I agree that she did well. The gods are satisfied by hospitality,
but I have no patience for uninvited guests who linger. I have a house
to keep.


<p style="text-align: center;">© 2024 Chloe Smith</p>


