---
title: The Rooms Behind the Kitchen
authors:
    - Christi Nogle
issue: Issue Eighteen, November 2024
description: "" 
shortdescription: "It began at least six months before her end, though of course Rose-Ellen didn't know to frame it in such terms at that time. A little nudge out of her body and to the side, subtle at the start as such dire things often are. She searched for her symptoms and received imperfect terms <em>Depersonalization</em>, she googled, <em>derealization</em>. Her sensations both were and weren't as described. She was pretty sure it was something else, sharing some features with these known phenomena but ultimately something more. <p>She cleared her browser history, imagining someone taking those searches as clues to something, in the future. As though anyone would try to unravel the mystery of her life after the fact.</p>"
category: FICTION
date: "2024-11-18T01:08:00.000Z"
path: "/the-rooms-behind-the-kitchen"
featured: false
available: true

---

<p style="text-align: right;"><em>3695 words</em></p>

It began at least six months before her end, though of course Rose-Ellen
didn't know to frame it in such terms at that time. A little nudge out
of her body and to the side, subtle at the start as such dire things
often are. She searched for her symptoms and received imperfect terms.
<em>Depersonalization</em>, she googled, <em>derealization</em>. Her sensations both
were and weren't as described. She was pretty sure it was something
else, sharing some features with these known phenomena but ultimately
something more.

She cleared her browser history, imagining someone taking those searches
as clues to something, in the future. As though anyone would try to
unravel the mystery of her life after the fact.

Just that little nudge like a child being pushed out of sleep in the
morning, late for school. A gentle push out and to the side, usually the
left side, while working, while cooking dinner. Sometimes this was
followed by something that felt like weightless hovering.

One night she was making tortillas, straining to hear Geoffrey talk
about his day from the living room, and she seemed to double. One part
of herself rolled out another ball of dough, and the other part wandered
the rooms behind the kitchen, admiring her own keepsakes and clothing
with nostalgia, like a person about to go on a long journey. While doing
this she could have sworn she was perfectly embodied, the lie of that
not discovered until her two parts converged and she found herself back
inside her body, feeling uncomfortably warm at the stove. Geoffrey had
relocated himself and his phone to the kitchen table. All the tortillas
were cooked and softening in their steam, and she stirred some hot
chicken to fill them.

It was then that she acknowledged a lingering suspicion: these
nudgings-out were precursors to death.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

She kept this all secret. It seemed a secret thing. Though she was only
thirty-two, she knew death was going to happen and that the nudging-out
and the hovering were designed to ease her way.

But when? How long?

One morning when she\'d stayed home from work, telling herself she was
only faking sickness but soon questioning that, she slid out of her body
and hovered through the kitchen and beyond it to the bedrooms. There
were three—the one she shared with Geoffrey, the one they used for
storage, and the guest room, where her mother had stayed a while before
her own death in the hospital. This last room was still quite plush and
pretty with the shabby chic items her mother had splurged upon after
being widowed.

Maybe these bouts of hovering happened to everyone before their death.
"Did it happen to you, too?" she asked, but her mother was not here any
longer.

It seemed precious, this knowledge or supposition: Not only do the dead
keep their secrets after they pass over, but they keep them before that
too.

Her mother's wall calendar still hung above the highboy, and as
Rose-Ellen approached to look at the kittens on it, the pages below
began to change. As though they were layers in a graphic design program,
each month being slowly dialed down in opacity. The calendar was open to
April—a strange coincidence because it was now April in Rose-Ellen's
world, only three years past the date on the calendar. As she hovered
before it, April dissolved into May, May to June, June to July, to
August, and there on August twenty-first stood a large X. The whole
production reminded her of something from an old black-and-white
melodrama, except this X was a vibrant Sharpie red. The Sharpie itself
lay not far off, on the edge of the highboy, and Rose-Ellen wondered who
had made that mark, and when.

When she next saw her body, lying on its side on the living room sofa
(she did not remember lying down), Geoffrey sat there with it, stroking
its hip. Already evening, then.

She had not faked illness; she *had* been ill, not with the fever or
respiratory problems she'd implied when calling in, not with anything
one could pinpoint, but with the knowledge of impending death. Something
like dizziness, shakiness, but not in the body at all.

As Geoffrey stood and began to pad around in search of something to make
for dinner, the body stirred. Rose-Ellen stayed fixed in the kitchen
doorway, curious. How could it move so well without her?

"You home?" the body called weakly, though Geoffrey had been
inordinately quiet.

He hurried into the living room, passing right through Rose-Ellen in the
doorway, and asked, "How you feeling?"

"Yeah, I don't know," the body said. It asked for the time, offered to
help with dinner. A decision was made to order out, and soon it was
eating more noodles and crab rangoon than a sick person ought to be able
to manage. Rose-Ellen tasted the salt and fat and sweetness but had no
particular urge to return to the body and experience those familiar
textures in her mouth. Geoffrey cleared away the trash and leftovers,
and the couple settled down to watch a movie. The room darkened.

At some moment she could not put her finger on later, Rose-Ellen
returned to herself, or rather, her self returned to her body,
uncomfortably humid in a sick-smelling T-shirt and couch blanket.
Geoffrey snored softly beside her, and she eased out so she wouldn't
wake him. She moved toward the rooms behind the kitchen, turning briefly
to affirm that her side of the couch lay empty, that she had in fact
brought her body with her this time.

She moved through her bedroom and the storage room, feeling that she'd
gone to look for something. The objects and the spaces before her had
drained of significance, all clearly not what she had been looking for.
She cracked the door to the guest room, bracing to see her mother. This
was not new; she'd been doing this ever since the woman died—several
times a day at the start, then less and less as the years unrolled.
Though the death had taken place in a hospital room, though Rose-Ellen
was as unspiritual and irreligious as they come, she always tensed to
see the ghost here, unsure whether the sighting would bring joy, relief,
fear, or something wholly unexpected.

She sometimes rushed past the door without cracking it, too afraid to
look.

"Are you here?" she called softly now. "Did this happen to you, too?"

There was, of course, no answer, and Rose-Ellen went about readying for
bed.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

Was the death already inside her body, cancer or something, or was it
some accident ahead of her in time? Her disquiet seemed not in the body
at all—but maybe that feeling would be the cause, she mused, maybe the
uneasiness would cause her to make a wrong move on a stairway, in the
car. She'd decided the feeling was soul-queasiness, simple dread. So far
it had not affected her driving, her balance, certainly not her
appetite—though she did notice herself edging out more often around
mealtimes. Food was no longer of interest to her. It had been that way
with her mother at the end, too.

April, May, and June went by, warm and vivid. The body went on eating,
went on exercising, going to work. She had moments thinking she ought to
quit her job, to make the most of these last few months, but there were
so many reasons not to. She'd laid them all out in her mind and not on
paper, as she usually would have done. First, the missing income would
put Geoffrey in a bind; second, it would raise his suspicions. He would
want to talk about things, and if they talked very much, he would take
her to the doctor. Third, what would she do, to make the most of her
time? She wasn't the type to run off on vacation alone, even if there
were plenty of funds. Travel held no interest. She had no life's project
to hurry up and finish. Lying around on the patio furniture reading and
watching television from the couch was about the best she could imagine,
and surely there were enough hours for these activities already, even
more so with the lengthened days, and so she kept going to work. She
even dressed up a little nicer and made efforts to be funny and
charming, thinking to leave her colleagues with better memories. She had
not always had the best attitude around people.

Soon she began moving out of her body at the office. With a spreadsheet
before her, a series of calls to make, she would hover into other rooms,
listening for mentions of herself. There were many items of gossip and
painful personal matters to hear, but they were about other people. No
one spoke of her. Well, one man did say she'd been looking hot lately,
wondered if she was thinking of divorce, but that wasn't the type of
thing she'd been listening for. She'd been listening for something about
her character, some defining sentiment that would let her know herself.
How she was perceived, if she mattered.

No answer came.

After a time, she wandered farther, into other offices filled with
people she'd glimpsed but never known, and finally down to street level,
exploring little cafes and shops or the large, shady park, places she
had briefly visited and never lingered over as well as places still
untouched.

There was no sense of urgency to any of it, and at night sometimes
before falling asleep she would tell Geoffrey how happy she'd been
recently. Calm, contented, whole. She wasn't only thinking of leaving
him with nice memories, though that was something; she was mostly
expressing how she felt. How she wanted to feel.

Expression gained importance. As August twenty-first came closer, she
wished to express to him something of what she had been experiencing,
just enough for a balm, later. Nothing would come. She could not move
her mouth to say anything of substance and eventually stopped trying.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

As the days turned scorching hot, intermittent bursts of desperation
broke through her constant state of calm and dread. She woke Geoffrey
once in the night, twice, screaming. He said she'd been speaking, too,
though he had not understood the words.

Reading now exhausted her, same with television. The one little gesture
she had made toward her death was a reckless spree on
annuals—petunias, verbena, little African daisies in pastel colors,
coleus and such. She'd nestled them in hanging baskets and had gone to
them in the mornings before her commute, in the evenings before Geoffrey
came home.

Her mother had loved annuals. Rose-Ellen never thought them worth the
expense, but having bought them she cherished them as much as she could,
picking off insects and wasted petals. Watered them, fertilized. By July
they were ailing despite it all. She took pity and sent them to their
end in the composter before the last blooms could open. She cried and
washed her face before Geoffrey saw.

He never remarked on the disappeared planters. Did he not notice, or was
he avoiding the mention of them? Did she seem that fragile now?

There was no way to communicate anything real to him. She had tried
scores of times. Her mouth would move to talk about dinner and weekend
plans and all the banal things, but it could not say *You ought to feel
free to find someone, soon if you want* or *I've been leaving my body
sometimes. I think everyone does it near the end.*

The death was inevitable—she had known that from the finality of that
red X on August twenty-first's square—but acceptance is not as easy as
it seems. Of course she had thought about finding help at her doctor's
office, the emergency room, other random medical facilities she passed
on the way to work. She had also thought about therapy, church, a
support group. Her mouth would not move, fingers would not press in the
numbers on her phone. Her hands would not turn the steering wheel, her
foot would not move for the brake pedal, and soon her eyes would not
even focus on the things they wanted to see.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

Rose-Ellen found herself at the kitchen desk typing, late at night, part
of a performance review for a woman she'd been hoping might replace her
at work. She'd already done a copious amount of writing, much more than
she would ever need, and yet she could not stop listing more and more
observations of this woman's competence and attention to detail.

She thought she was fully engaged, but after a time she began to feel
sleepy and soon her vision went black, as it sometimes did when she fell
asleep reading before bed, yet the writing kept happening without her.
She could hear it, feel the impacts on her fingertips. Something about
this made her suddenly furious. How had she lost control to this extent?

Desperate to wrestle back some of her autonomy, she strained. Like
lifting a heavy weight, like struggling on the last few minutes on the
step machine at the gym, strained until *she* was the one typing, almost
one hundred percent in control:

*August twenty-first, august twenty-first, august twenty-first, it's the
day I die the day you die it's the day you die and you have been
half-dead for months now rose-ellen don't you feel it?*

A strong convulsion gripped her and she seemed to shrink to a point
before expanding outward, pushing herself away from the desk on the
rolling chair, knocking the chair on its back, stumbling back but not
falling. She wasn't the one to take any of those actions. She'd not been
nudged-out this time but swiftly expelled like a long-held breath, and
now she turned. The body took one long gasp and then it whispered,
"Who's there? Who's there?"

It could not see Rose-Ellen facing it. Its eyes roved back and forth
like someone faking blindness.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

Rose-Ellen lingered in her mother's room late in the night. She had been
agitated and came here to avoid waking Geoffrey with another nightmare.
She curled on the bed in the dark, thinking of nothing.

The door cracked, and someone gasped. Rose-Ellen gasped, too. When the
big overhead light flicked on, she was the one in the doorway, just like
that, and no one was curled on the bed.

The next day, Saturday, they lingered over late coffee and toast on the
deck. Soon it would be too hot to be outside even in the mornings.
Geoffrey recalled to her a dream of fishing from a massive aquarium, and
when he finished, she described her own dream:

Her spirit had left her body and gone to her mother's room, and her body
had come looking for her without knowing what it was doing. It cracked
the door, anticipating a ghost, and found one curled on the bed.
Meanwhile, as she lay there on the bed, she had been sure it was her
mother coming, knew she would *finally* see this ghost she had been
looking for and braced to see.

Rose-Ellen was amazed she'd been able to say something.

"In fact, I was all of them—the me in the doorway, the me on the bed,
the ghost I was hoping to see—I was all of them. I can't explain."

*I was you, too, I was the bed, everything. The door.*

She couldn't say all of it.

Geoffrey never read a paper. He did not lower any paper and make intense
eye contact over it. The effect was the same, though. She'd pulled his
attention from food and drink and phone. She saw him debating what to
think of this, what to say.

"I know you're always missing her," was what he settled on.

Rose-Ellen nodded.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

Two weeks left. Rose-Ellen cleared away the things that were only hers,
the things that were meaningless now. In the night she used the backyard
fire pit to burn the things she thought might burden him the
most—pictures of her aunts and uncles, grandparents and parents, all
dead, the clothes too threadbare to donate. Less flammable things she
sneaked into the garbage one at a time, hiding them under packaging
waste and plastic shopping bags.

Over the years she had written poems, sometimes little essays and short
stories. She browsed through these in a single afternoon, collected the
few most complete and accessible of them in a folder she titled
"creative writing," and deleted the rest. She wrote all her passwords
out clearly on a sheet of paper and left it folded in her desk drawer.
After some incognito browsing she told herself she had no need for a
will, as Geoffrey really was her only tie to the world. He still had
family. He would have a new partner someday.

If she had thought it necessary, Rose-Ellen had no doubt the body would
have written out the thing and driven it to a notary with no complaint.
She would have been able to. It wasn't that she'd taken control of the
body; it was that the body had the same thoughts as she did. They were
separate but working in agreement.

It was so easy to settle her affairs, all done within a week so that in
her final days all she had to do was sit in the air conditioning. At
work, at home, she sat quietly in the cool trying to believe there was
no separation between her selves. She resisted all urges to split,
resisted her mother's bedroom door, too, until a night very close to her
last when she remembered the calendar. She would have to take it down so
that Geoffrey couldn't see the X.

At the door, she did not brace for anything. She opened it quickly.

Rose-Ellen was in the midst of a different time. Sunlight came in strong
and her mother was in the bed, looking not healthy, but perfectly
coherent and cheerful.

"Oh, breakfast?" her mother said. The TV emitted the chirpy banter of a
game show. Nothing in the room surprised Rose-Ellen as much as her own
self did. Her arms, feeling stronger than they had, held a tray heavy
with eggs, toast, juice, coffee. Her arms wore the faded brown fleece of
a top she'd burned weeks ago.

She was shaky inside, but her body moved steadily, under its own
control. It waited for her mother to scoot back, then settled the tray
on the rolling table.

"Sit with me?" said her mother, and Rose-Ellen settled on the flowered
chair beside the bed. Such a beautiful pattern. The chair had been in
the room all this time but she had not taken it in. Now she traced the
flowers with her finger.

They watched a nervous woman spin a massive wheel.

"I thought you might like to wait here while it happens," said her
mother, dipping toast into runny egg.

"While what happens?" said Rose-Ellen, but her mother gestured to her
mouth, too full to talk.

The door creaked, and Rose-Ellen startled. "Geoffrey?" she called, but
the door only stayed like that, just-cracked. She rose and peered
through the crack, but there was nothing. The hallway was entirely dark.

She seated herself again. "Where's your calendar?" she said. It no
longer hung above the highboy.

Her mother had just taken another huge bite. She rolled her eyes and
then held a finger in the air—*just a minute*—and reached for the
remote. She hit the channel button a few times and passed the remote to
Rose-Ellen.

There, in black and white, was this very room. A grainy nightvision
shot. The door cracked and stayed cracked a moment until a woman swept
inside. It was Rose-Ellen, looking gaunt. She stood in front of the
calendar for a moment, then took it down and left the room.

The oversized thumb tack still sat there on the highboy, glinting in
sunlight, proof of the event.

Something was wrong now. The TV showed another night-time view, the
backyard. Rose-Ellen squirted lighter fluid over the calendar and lit
it, but all the time, the sounds from the game show broadcasted over the
images.

Her mother stifled a burp. She'd all but finished the food.

"You said to stay in here while *it* happened. What did you mean?"

But her mother was back to being a memory. A recording. Something about
the old woman's eyes told Rose-Ellen her mother was trapped inside of
herself, straining and failing to communicate.

"This lady's going to win the whole thing," her mother said, gesturing
at the TV. The crowd cheered, but on the screen, Rose-Ellen's death
played out. It was a car accident after all, caused by something falling
out of the back of a pickup ahead of her on the freeway. She was glad to
get to see it from this distance and know that it was not her fault,
that there was not a thing she could have done differently, that no one
else had been hurt.

Truly ideal.

Rose-Ellen turned to her mother to say she was grateful, but this body
she inhabited was back to being a memory too. It could only say, "We've
got to go in for your tests this afternoon."

"Pack me some puzzle books and things. I bet they don't let me back
home," her mother said.

This was true, and her mother must have known it for a long while, and
yet Rose-Ellen's mouth assured her, "Just some tests. You'll be feeling
great soon." She controlled this ghost-body not one bit more than she
had the corporeal one, and with this knowledge came a surge of relief.

Their eyes seemed to communicate, there for a while, but as the body
began packing for the hospital visit, Rose-Ellen slipped away from it to
wander through the other bedrooms, dark again. So many rooms now.
Geoffrey slept all alone, and the house unfolded, infinitely complex but
silent. Silent, neat and clean, ready for someone new.


<p style="text-align: center;">© 2024 Christi Nogle</p>


