---
title: The Coral Tombs
authors:
    - Eric Raglin
issue: Issue Seventeen, September 2024
description: "Ernesto doesn't bother learning hurricane names anymore. Sometimes the tourists mention them—<em>Luisa's supposed to make landfall in a couple hours. We'll be safe here, right?</em>—but they never stick in his head. Hurricanes, like tourists, are all the same: destructive forces converging on his home. <p>Today, they converge again: the tenth storm and tenth tour group of the season. The bay might be a mess of beach houses battered into splinters and luxury hotels flooded into ruin, but for Ernesto, business has never been better.</p>" 
shortdescription: "Ernesto doesn't bother learning hurricane names anymore. Sometimes the tourists mention them—<em>Luisa's supposed to make landfall in a couple hours. We'll be safe here, right?</em>—but they never stick in his head. Hurricanes, like tourists, are all the same: destructive forces converging on his home. <p>Today, they converge again: the tenth storm and tenth tour group of the season. The bay might be a mess of beach houses battered into splinters and luxury hotels flooded into ruin, but for Ernesto, business has never been better.</p>"
category: FICTION
date: "2024-09-09T01:10:00.000Z"
path: "/the-coral-tombs"
featured: false
available: true

---

Ernesto doesn't bother learning hurricane names anymore. Sometimes the
tourists mention them—*Luisa's supposed to make landfall in a couple hours. We'll be safe here, right?*—but 
they never stick in his head. Hurricanes, like tourists, are all the same: destructive forces
converging on his home.

Today, they converge again: the tenth storm and tenth tour group of the
season. The bay might be a mess of beach houses battered into splinters
and luxury hotels flooded into ruin, but for Ernesto, business has never
been better.

The Hanolds and the Fogles arrive eight hours before landfall, plodding
along the beach in silk button-ups and leather sandals imported from
Europe. The two couples are white—or rather, a shade of coral pink
that will redden and blister over the next few hours, no matter how much
sunscreen they apply.

"Hello, yes, are you the tour guide?" Mr. Hanold asks Ernesto, brushing
sand off the tops of his feet. "Hablas inglés?"

He grins at Mrs. Hanold, as if expecting her to applaud his two words of
Spanish.

"Yes, that's me," Ernesto says in English, aware that a Spanish response
would only make the man gape like a dumb parrotfish. "Is everyone ready
to go? We'll have three hours to spend at the reef."

"And the ghosts will be there?" Mrs. Fogle asks. She smiles and wiggles
her shoulders at "ghosts,\" emphasizing her nervous excitement.

"They will, ma'am," Ernesto replies, refusing to match her enthusiasm.
"Now, all aboard."

Storm after storm has pummeled the fixed dock housing his boat, but
hurricane-resistant construction has protected both from significant
damage. Besides some warped boards and scratched paint, everything works
just fine.

Given the advanced age of these tourists, Ernesto offers each a hand as
they step into the boat. Both of the men refuse, Mr. Hanold even waving
him off, but Mrs. Fogle accepts his help and calls him a gentleman.

"It's hot as hell today," Mr. Hanold says. "Could I get a drink?"

If he thinks he'll get full service—a tequila sunrise made with fresh,
locally grown, taste-of-the-tropics oranges—he's dead wrong. Ernesto
doesn't have to try that hard to keep customers, not with a tourist
destination as singularly fascinating as the ghost reef. Plus, the
charismatic bartender was always his husband Gabriel's role, up until he
died three years back—a sudden stroke while skin diving at the reef.
His ghost will be there today. Ernesto can't wait to see him.

Turning back to Mr. Hanold, he says, "Sure. Grab a beer from the
cooler."

Mr. Hanold pauses as if he can't quite believe what he's hearing.
Grumbling under his breath, he grabs a Corona and plops down portside on
a cracked cushion.

When everyone is seated, Ernesto pulls the boat away from the dock and
into the boiling sea.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

"How much farther is it?" Mr. Hanold asks. Already tipsy, he thrusts the
lip of his beer bottle at the darkening horizon, amber liquid sloshing
onto the deck. "I don't want to get caught in that."

"We won't," Ernesto says from the captain's chair. "Just a few more
minutes until we arrive."

The gray, rubble-clotted beach is distant now. Still standing among the
ruin is Ernesto's hurricane shelter—a reinforced concrete cube—but
it's barely visible from this far away. He dreads waiting out the worst
of the storm there with the tourists. No matter how many times he does
it, sheltering with these people never gets easier. At least when
Gabriel was alive, Ernesto had someone to share the suffering with—and
someone who could keep the assholes entertained with fishing tales,
mixed drinks, and card games. Like children, tourists always need
entertaining, unable to sit with their boredom or accept that waiting
out a Category 5 isn't supposed to be fun.

The pale green glow of the ghost reef comes into view. Ernesto brings
the boat to a stop, then drops anchor.

"We're here," he says.

Mr. Hanold grumbles "finally" and Mrs. Hanold gives his sunburnt thigh a
playful smack.

The Fogles applaud the arrival.

"Some history first," Ernesto says. "A couple decades ago, this reef was
fully alive with fish, sharks, crabs, coral, even—"

"No offense," Mr. Hanold says, wobbling to his feet, "but we came here
to see the ghosts, not hear you talk. You got goggles, snorkels,
flippers, all that?"

Mrs. Hanold frowns and looks away, as if she's both embarrassed of and
used to her husband's behavior.

Mrs. Fogle stands, lifts the cushioned lid of her seat, and examines the
equipment inside. "Here we go."

Without waiting for Ernesto's instructions, the tourists distribute
equipment amongst themselves.

"You got a better snorkel?" Mr. Hanold asks. "This one smells weird."

"Sure, try one of the others," Ernesto says, pointing to a pile of
spares.

Mr. Hanold sneers, then sifts through his options.

"Where can I put my clothes?" Mrs. Hanold asks. "I don't want them to
get wet."

Nothing stays dry on the open ocean, but Ernesto motions to another seat
compartment. Mrs. Hanold takes off her blouse, folds it neatly, and,
with some hesitation, tucks it into the salt-crusted, mildewy storage
area.

While everyone stores their clothes and adjusts the tightness of their
goggles, Ernesto scans the sea for Gabriel's ghost. The glowing reef is
still a short swim away, but if he squints, he can make out the
translucent fins of makos stalking the water. They're harmless in spirit
form, but when the reef was alive, Ernesto and Gabriel always told
tourists to keep their distance. Still, Gabriel loved regaling them with
fake stories about sharks he\'d punched between the eyes to save
tourists from becoming lunch. These tales were always a hit with the
crowd, even if their self-aggrandizing artifice made Ernesto roll his
eyes.

Shifting his gaze, Ernesto spots the appendages of anemones, wriggling
like long phantom fingers. Gabriel always loved watching their
otherworldly dance. If his ghost is anywhere in this reef, it's bound to
be—

There. Gabriel\'s eyes are wide and hypnotized, his seaglass form
shimmering. His ethereal flippers match the anemone's motion, their
spirits in sync.

Unfortunately for Ernesto, getting a spirit's attention is tough.
Gabriel rarely notices him. The ocean's oily surface sometimes feels
like a one-way mirror through which the living can see the dead but the
dead see only the faded and fallen. Still, Ernesto wants time with his
husband. A chance to pretend they're exploring the reef together again,
mutually mesmerized by the organism's stinging tendrils. Sometimes the
lovers would return here after the tourists had gone back to their
resorts, savoring the magic of this place for themselves. They would
kiss in the glow of plankton instead of ghosts, the reef still
half-alive. Ernesto has given up hope for another kiss like that, but
maybe if he's lucky, his husband will actually notice him today, grace
him with a smile. Rare, but it's happened before.

Readying his usual lie, Ernesto addresses the tourists before they can
jump in the water. "Some rules," he says. "No swimming on the north side
of the boat. The ghosts in that part of the reef are much more
aggressive. The ones to the south won't snap at you. Stay there for your
own safety. I'll call you all back with enough time to spare before the
storm. Understood?"

The tourists exchange a glance. Mrs. Hanold grimaces, looking less sure
of herself after this warning. Mr. Hanold snorts like Ernesto is full of
shit.

"Got it, boss," he says. He bites down on his snorkel, then takes the
plunge on the south side.

With some hesitation, the others join him, each one splashing after the
next.

"Oh my, this feels like a hot tub!" Mrs. Hanold says.

Her husband swims off with his goggles pointed at the necroluminescent
sea floor. The others follow with lazy dog paddles and asymmetric breast
strokes.

When it's clear that a spectral octopus has captivated the tourists,
Ernesto lets out a breath. Now is his time to spend as he pleases.
Stripping off his sweat-soured T-shirt, he jumps off the other side of
the boat to join his husband. Mrs. Hanold is right about the water
feeling like a hot tub—an unmaintained one cranked up a few too many
degrees. The filmy water clings to Ernesto's skin like shed ectoplasm. A
school of barracudas glides beneath him, in no hurry to be anywhere but
here.

A few dozen freestyle strokes close the distance between Ernesto and
Gabriel. Like every time he sees his husband, he reaches out his hand,
trying to touch the intangible. His fingers trace bubbles through the
water but pass through Gabriel—still a specter, barely aware of
Ernesto's continued existence. Ernesto often wonders if it's better this
way, if Gabriel is happier in his state of perpetual marine hypnosis.

He joins his husband in watching the waving anemone. A bonding activity,
even if Gabriel doesn't realize it. The anemone's tendrils reach toward
hapless fish and the scorching sun beyond. Predation has never looked
more beautiful.

Ernesto imagines Gabriel's hand in his own, and though his husband is
years gone, he swears he can almost feel the warmth of his callused
palm.

A splash behind them dissolves this vision. Ernesto whips around,
imagining a mako breaching the surface with prey in its jaws, but of
course, nothing lives here anymore. Nothing except tourists.

Despite Ernesto's rules, Mr. Hanold has joined him on the north side of
the boat. He's unaccompanied, but the other tourists peek at him from a
safe distance. Perhaps they still believe Ernesto's lie about the
spirits here being more aggressive.

Ernesto swims to block Mr. Hanold's view of Gabriel, but a quick glance
reveals that his husband has vanished. Did Gabriel notice this complete
stranger but not Ernesto? Or was the timing of his disappearance
coincidental? Ernesto hopes to god it's the latter.

"The ghosts over here don't seem so bad," Mr. Hanold says, pulling his
snorkel from his mouth.

"Did he notice you?" Ernesto asks. The question comes out sharp as
shark's teeth.

Scoffing, Mr. Hanold squints through his fogged-up goggles. "That guy
die out here or something?" he asks, but he doesn't give time for a
response. "Whatever, I don't really care. But listen, pal, I haven't
liked your attitude today. I paid for this experience and I expect to
be—"

Ernesto reaches out and grips the man's shoulder—an interrogator
getting answers out of a suspect. "Did he *notice* you? Did you scare
away my husband?"

Either it's the mention of "husband" or the sting of his salmon-colored
sunburn, but Mr. Hanold winces and shrugs Ernesto off. He bites his
snorkel, puts his face back in the water, and splashes away, back to
exploring the reef.

Ernesto wants to grab his flipper, reel him in, and gut him like an ugly
fish. But not just him. *All* of them. Trash floating in the spoiled
brine.

Ernesto swims in a circle, scanning other parts of the reef for Gabriel.
Ghostly loggerhead turtles float by like they're flying in slow motion,
but Gabriel is nowhere to be found. A sob rises in Ernesto's throat but
doesn't escape. The air around him boils with the coming storm, nearly
as humid as the water itself. Breathing feels like choking. The horizon
is blackening—darker than he's ever seen it before.

Barely conscious of his actions, he swims back to the boat and climbs
aboard. He operates without thought, as if a single moment of conscious
consideration might put a stop to his unfolding plan. He starts the
boat's engine, and it rumbles to life.

The tourists look up from the reef, eyeing Ernesto at the wheel. Mr.
Hanold throws up his hands in exasperation, and the Fogles grumble to
each other.

"You said three hours, not three goddamn minutes," Mr. Hanold says,
treading water about fifty feet away.

Mrs. Hanold speaks, her voice nasal and muted through tight goggles: "Is
it time to leave already? I wish we had longer, but it's better to play
it safe, I suppose."

Ernesto pulls the anchor up, his wet hands moving as fast as they can.
Take too long and one of the tourists might make it on board. They're
already swimming toward the boat. Not in a hurry, but quick enough to
worry him.

Five more pulls and the anchor is back on deck. It's time.

Ernesto eyes the distant but approaching hurricane—a cylinder of
churning violence.

"Wait up," Mr. Hanold says, spitting sea water. He reaches the ladder
before the others.

Just as the man grabs the top rung, Ernesto kicks him in the chest. Mr.
Hanold splashes back into the ocean, passing through a spectral stingray
that takes no notice.

Mrs. Hanold shrieks and paddles toward her husband faster. Her eyes go
wide when they meet Ernesto's. She's the first to realize what's
happening.

Whole body shaking, Ernesto returns to the helm and pushes the throttle.
The boat pulls away from the tourists, slicing through the sea as he
turns back toward the far-off shore. He'll get there before the
hurricane makes landfall, but the others won't, no matter how fast they
swim.

Their screams follow him like the wails of banshees. He pushes the boat
to its limit. The motor's roar drowns out their terror.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

Two days alone in the shelter, eating canned tuna and listening to the
howling wind. Two nights spent thinking of Gabriel. Of that shithead Mr.
Hanold and the other horrible tourists.

When the howling stops and the sloshing storm surge recedes, Ernesto
leaves his protected concrete cube.

Somehow, the beach looks like less of a ruin than before. The hurricane
has either beaten glass and plywood into indiscernible shards, mixing
them in seamlessly with the sand, or it has whisked the rubble farther
inland. The evidence that resorts dominated this strip of coastline
fades more and more with each passing storm.

The fixed dock nearly succumbed to this hurricane, splintered boards
clinging to shore like giant hangnails. Ernesto's boat took a beating
too, its metal exterior dented but not pierced. After an hour spent
bailing water from the hull, he starts the motor and heads back toward
the reef. The next hurricane is already on the horizon, and the ghost
reef will be active again. A pit forms in Ernesto's gut—a premonition
given physical form. He can feel that the reef has changed in some
irreparable way.

As he speeds toward his destination, snakes of heat rise from the ocean
in the noontime sun. Silent, he stands at the helm, death-gripping the
wheel. No tourists complain from the seats behind him. No gulls shriek
in the spraying wake. The surrounding lifelessness allows his anxiety to
bubble up and fill the space. A violent feeling like seasickness
overtakes him, though he hasn't puked on a ship in years.

When he finally gets to the reef, he finds no tourist corpses floating
on the surf. No surprise there. The hurricane probably whisked them away
in bits and bloody pieces.

But his premonition proves true. Their ghosts are here. Translucent
goggled forms aimlessly splashing around, searching for something but
unsure what it might be. Ernesto has sullied the reef with their spirits
like an offshore rig spewing oil into the ocean.

Frantic, he scans the waters for Gabriel. He doesn't know if it's better
or worse for him to be here—stuck with tourists for all time or pushed
out of this place by their very presence. Ernesto looks to the anemones
that so often hypnotize his husband.

But he\'s nowhere to be found. Displaced. No longer even a ghost.


<p style="text-align: center;">© 2024 Eric Raglin</p>