---
title: Reciprocity
authors:
    - Valerie Kemp
issue: Issue Sixteen, July 2024
description: "" 
shortdescription: "Amber has been dead three days when she wakes up in her boyfriend's bathtub. It isn't the <em>scritch-scratch</em> of the tattoo needle that brings her back—although that sting is strange and unexpected. No, it's the cold that shocks her back into the world. She's buried up to her neck under bags of melting ice. <p>&quot;Holy shit,&quot; Cash, her supposed-to-be-ex-boyfriend, shouts at the sound of her involuntary gasp. &quot;I did it!&quot; He's crouched beside the tub, tattoo pen in one hand, her wrist in the other.</p> <p>Of course. Amber can barely hold back her sigh. <em>Of course.</em></p> <p>Never underestimate the power of an entitled man with a fragile ego and too much paid time off.</p>"
category: FICTION
date: "2024-07-01T01:04:00.000Z"
path: "/reciprocity"
featured: false
available: true

---

Amber has been dead three days when she wakes up in her boyfriend's
bathtub. It isn't the *scritch-scratch* of the tattoo needle that brings
her back—although that sting is strange and unexpected. No, it's the
cold that shocks her back into the world. She's buried up to her neck
under bags of melting ice.

"Holy shit," Cash, her supposed-to-be-ex-boyfriend, shouts at the sound
of her involuntary gasp. "I did it!" He's crouched beside the tub,
tattoo pen in one hand, her wrist in the other.

Of course. Amber can barely hold back her sigh. *Of course.*

Never underestimate the power of an entitled man with a fragile ego and
too much paid time off.

Amber doesn't know how she's back, but she realizes her mistake
immediately. Rather than vodka and Xanax (and a dramatic letter now
entirely wasted since, currently, she *is* seeing his face again) she
should've blown herself up, or thrown herself into the ocean, something
that made her body unsalvageable, or at least undesirable.

Cash sits back on his heels and stares at her in wonder. "Amb," his
voice is surprisingly thick with emotion. "You came back to me!"

The statement is wrong on so many levels she can't process it. Instead,
she inspects her inner right wrist. A poorly drawn dollar sign the color
of dried blood is etched just below her palm.

Her mind says *don't panic*, but her newly revived body has other plans.
With a lurch she grabs the lip of the old clawfoot tub to pull herself
out.

"Stop," Cash says.

Amber's body jerks to a standstill. She wills her limbs to move. They
hold fast.

Cash laughs and claps his hands. His glee is sharp-edged, ruthless.
*There's* the Cash she knows.

Her skin prickles. The tattoo. His mark. *It can't be*. Her voice is a
rasp. "What did you do?"

"I told you. You don't get to leave. I decide when I'm done with you."
Cash stands, his grin vicious. "Actually, I decide everything you do
now."

Rage has never been in Amber's repertoire—she's a *good* girl—but
the emotion burns through her like a fever. In the last three years,
Cash has taken away her friends, her family, her autonomy, even one of
her teeth.

Now he's stolen her death.

Behind him, the small bathroom is littered with open spellbooks, a
laptop with a "tattoo how-to" video on pause, and vials of powders and
liquids—some she recognizes from her own stash. A bloody syringe sits
in a shot glass of tattoo ink. Her breath hitches. *Blood-ink?*

"You can move." Cash laughs when her arms collapse and she slams her
chest on the tub's edge with a hiss. He tosses the tattoo pen into the
sink, smug. "It's been a long three days." He twists his head, cracking
his neck in that way she hates. "Thought I was gonna be stuck here
again. But now," he checks his watch. "I can catch the game at Brad's."

Amber is incredulous, and yet, not surprised. "You're leaving?"

He shrugs, already pulling out his phone. "Not like you're going
anywhere." He strolls out of the room, texting, then spins back to say,
"Don't leave the apartment. Don't talk to anyone. Don't text."

Stiff and slippery, Amber hauls herself out of the ice. She studies her
face in the mirror. Her skin is more grey than brown, but gaining color.
The scab on her split lower lip, Cash's last gift to her, is as unhealed
as it was the last time she saw it. She tugs at the tangled knot he made
of her curls, grappling with the reality that she's actually there in
the room she thought she'd never see again.

She's supposed to be free.

Amber examines the detritus of Cash's spell. Blood magic. It has to be.
But Cash isn't that smart—he didn't even think to tell her not to undo
his spell. He mocked her "weird goth shit" anytime she tried to teach
him about witchcraft. How did *he* manage to pull this off without
catastrophic results?

Amber shivers in a towel, pouring over the spellbooks spread across the
sink. She has no doubt that Cash—who once punched her for suggesting
he read through the instructions before attempting (and failing) to
assemble a bookcase—has missed something.

Cash's voice drifts in from the hallway. "Nah, just me. Amber's still
sick." He's on his phone. Amber straightens, pretends to be detangling
her hair. He winks at her as he passes the bathroom.

Sick. Of course that was his excuse. Amber had been "sick" a lot in
their relationship—every time she had a black eye or split lip or he
was just tired of seeing her face—until, finally, she really was sick
of living that way.

Death has given Amber clarity. She sees the way Cash chipped away pieces
of herself so gradually she hardly noticed. Can see the trail they make
from who she was to where she is now. The way he kept her off-balance
and focused on *his* needs, *his* moods.

Cash made her despair so deeply that she believed death was her only
escape, but he killed her long before she swallowed those pills.

She stares into the dull brown eyes of her reflection, uncertain now if
the lifelessness is new.

The apartment door slams. Amber throws on the robe hanging on the back
of the bathroom door. She heads to the kitchen to put the kettle on.
Although she moved in two years ago, she has only ever thought of the
place as Cash's. Her clothes are in the bedroom but she can't bring
herself to enter the scene of her death. Lying on that bed, "fuck you"
letter in hand, had felt empowering in the brief queasy moment before
consciousness faded. Now, the room is a reminder of the lightless prison
her life had been. Still is.

Her epiphany is a hard punch to the stomach. By choosing death she
punished *herself* for *his* behavior. She takes a shuddering breath.
Never again.

Amber drops a stack of thick spellbooks onto the breakfast bar and
starts reading. She cups her steaming mug with both hands and holds it
close to her chest. She can't get warm despite the fire burning in her.
Her heartbeat is sluggish, her senses dull. She feels... not dead
exactly, but not alive, either. She wonders if it's a side effect of the
magic or the ice.

The summer night sky shifts from pink to deep red. Cash likely won't be
home until late, but she can't take any chances. She keeps searching,
her urgency and the green tea spiking enough adrenaline to clear her
head, increase her focus.

In the addendum of the third spellbook, Amber finds what she's looking
for.

*CAVEAT*, the note reads. *Reanimating the dead requires irreversible transfer of the caster's life-force. While it is possible to control the reanimated once they are bound with the caster's blood, if the binding is not balanced by using the dead's blood in a reciprocal tattoo, the reanimated can syphon off the caster's life-force unchecked*.

Pulse thrumming, Amber strips. Cash never did understand the concept of
reciprocity—why give when you've already taken what you want? Aside
from the tattoo, she finds no fresh marks on her body. Her blood hasn't
been taken.

A bubbling lightness fills Amber's chest. Her lips curve into a shape
she thought they'd forgotten how to make.

Cash fucked up.

It's time they *both* get what they deserve.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

Cash sloshes into the apartment just after 2 a.m. Amber waits on the
couch in her favorite sundress—the one Cash always complained was too
short. He flops down next to her, sour breath reeking, eyes bleary.
"Ssssup."

"Hi," Amber says, her voice sweet. She slides off the couch and drops to
her knees in front of him. She does her best to mimic the doe-eyed
expression she wore when they first got together.

Cash is too focused on her current location to notice. He licks his lips
and grins down at her. "Hell yeah."

She places a hand on each side of his face and looks him deeply,
sincerely, in the eyes. "Thank you for giving me my life back."

He leans in, his words slurring. "Aw, what's this? Gratitude?"

"No," she whispers against his lips. "Reciprocity."

Amber inhales.

Cash stiffens. Eyes wide, he tries to speak, but Amber is stealing his
breath and his life. Warmth floods her body. Colors brighten, her senses
heighten. Cash's heartbeat stutters and falls off. Amber's builds to a
crescendo. Her wrist stings as the blood-ink tattoo turns to ash. She
vibrates with an unfamiliar, joyous hum.

Cash slumps in Amber's hands. His face slack, his chest still. She
releases him to gravity. The thud his body makes is the clang of a
church bell announcing the new day. She is the sun, rising to greet it.

Amber is *alive*.


<p style="text-align: center;">© 2024 Valerie Kemp</p>


