---
title: Music, Murder, Murmuration
authors:
    - Courtney Floyd
issue: Issue Eighteen, November 2024
description: "" 
shortdescription: "Ever since her sisters kicked her out of the family band, Cyrene had been searching for someone she could harmonize with. The problem was her auditions had a nasty habit of turning into massacres. Figurative, sure. But also, inevitably, <em<literal</em>. <p>There was the Americana group out in Asheville—they'd been promising until they'd fizzed out like Cheerwine shaken hard and fast before Cyrene even got to the chorus. And just like that bright red soda pop, their contents stained the carpets. And the walls. And Cyrene, when she tried to revive them.</p>"
category: FICTION
date: "2024-11-18T01:04:00.000Z"
path: "/music-murder-murmuration"
featured: false
available: true

---

<p style="text-align: right;"><em>2120 words</em></p>

Ever since her sisters kicked her out of the family band, Cyrene had
been searching for someone she could harmonize with. The problem was her
auditions had a nasty habit of turning into massacres. Figurative, sure.
But also, inevitably, *literal*.

There was the Americana group out in Asheville—they'd been promising
until they'd fizzed out like Cheerwine shaken hard and fast before
Cyrene even got to the chorus. And just like that bright red soda pop,
their contents stained the carpets. And the walls. And Cyrene, when she
tried to revive them.

Then, there was the audition with the anti-folk duo in Austin, back when
Cyrene still held on to the possibility that what had happened to the
Americana group was a fluke. The duo's music was too whimsical for her,
but she was drawn to the simple chaos of their sound. *They* made it
through half of the chorus before popping: blown-out speakers with
bulging eyes.

After that, she stopped auditioning with original work. Covers had to be
safer. They weren't even properly *her* music. They couldn't possibly
have the same effect.

They didn't. But the distinction was a weak technicality.

After disintegrating a pop artist, asphyxiating an indie band, and
exsanguinating a group of filkers, Cyrene stopped auditioning
altogether.

Maybe her sisters were right.

Maybe she *was* a hopeless virtuoso.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

Singing with her sisters had always been effortless—as long as Cyrene
didn't try to harmonize. A few hummed notes to find their key, and
they'd be flying through their sets, voices weaving in and out of
intricate formations. They weren't just a family band, they were a
murmuration. Songbirds, warbling as they danced through the sky.

Finding that ease and joy in music with other people shouldn't have been
so difficult. The artists she'd auditioned with were good. Some of them
were even great. On paper, they were more than capable of collaborating
with someone like Cyrene. Some of them, she suspected, would have joined
their voices with hers in ways her sisters never would or could.

Maybe the problem was that, unlike her sisters, they were *people*.

Or maybe it was some fault in her music.

No one else in the family had ever branched out, so Cyrene lacked data
to know, definitively, one way or another.

All she knew was what her sisters had told her, that last practice.

They were sick of her hogging the spotlight.

She'd only wanted to try something new. Write a song instead of singing
the ancient tunes they'd inherited from their ancestors. But when she'd
pulled out her fledgling song, handed out the sheet music, they'd
accused her of trying to replace not just their traditional tunes but
*them*. She'd already had a tendency to hog the lead vocals. If they let
her start *writing* songs, she'd use her newfound skill to make them
permanent background singers: a musical mutiny they would not abide.

Melodica had cried angry tears, demanding to know why *she* didn't
deserve to be the lead singer once in a while.

Brio and Aria had calmly explained that they didn't want her songs, and
they didn't need *her*.

Tympani had drummed long and loud and hard any time Cyrene tried to
explain.

That she wanted, more than anything, to be able to harmonize.

That she could never hear the currents that allowed voices to flit above
and below the melody, free to pinwheel and dive.

That she'd only given herself the lead parts because harmony evaded her.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

It'd been months since she last made music when she saw the open mic
flyer. Months of nothing but dreary sets, sung alone and in her shower
and *only* when her roommates were out.

The flyer called to her, and if she hadn't lashed herself so thoroughly
to the mast of her day job, it would have sunk her resolve.

But then one week, after work, she went with her colleagues to a local
pub. It was a big, empty place. A converted garage, with industrial
lighting and picnic benches for seating. The open mic flyer fluttered on
a bulletin board in the entry, along with advertisements for a poetry
slam and a weekly jam session.

Inside, in the opposite corner from the counter and till, a ragtag group
picked bluegrass tunes with more speed than synchronicity. A tween on
the banjo seemed to lead the pack, with a chocolate-box assortment of
elders and teenagers on guitars and ukuleles, a handful of church ladies
with tambourines shaken confidently off-rhythm, a toddler slobbering on
a kazoo, a twiggy twenty-something who alternated between a mouth harp
and a cajon, and a couple of oddballs on electric piano and stand-up
bass.

Cyrene was enthralled.

Her resolve crumbled under the banjo's assault.

According to the bass player, they were here every week. And when Friday
rolled around again, Cyrene grabbed her lute and joined them. It seemed
like a safe choice. Unlike her voice, her lute had never killed anyone.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

During the months Cyrene jammed with the Pint Place Pickers, she didn't
sing a single note. It wasn't that she didn't *want* to. It was just
that she could imagine the way the group would come undone if she joined
in on a raucous chorus or participated in call and response.

The banjo player's dormant aneurism would burst, and then the tambourine
ladies would fall like dominoes as dismay triggered strokes and heart
attacks. Several of the guitarists would choke on their own inhaled
spit. The toddler with the kazoo would startle and run outside and
escape, but he'd be the only one. The keyboardist would inexplicably die
of electric shock. The bass player would trip while dragging her
instrument out of the fracas and fall neck-first onto the dusty amp that
waited, quiescent, for open mic night.

Cyrene *needed* to sing just as much as she needed to breathe. But she
couldn't bring herself to break up this horrible, beautiful group in
such a permanent way.

She stayed quiet.

But the more she jammed without singing, the more her need to sing grew.
Once or twice, swept away by the melancholy twining of voices, she came
so perilously close to *humming* *along* that she had to bite her tongue
hard enough to draw blood to stop the sound from slaughtering everyone
in the room.

She quit the group, but the urge kept building. If she didn't do
something soon, she'd break and go to karaoke with her roommates. Or
she'd sign up for that open mic after all. Or maybe she'd just start
busking on some random street corner, killing off the passersby.

She considered booking a flight home and begging her sisters to take her
back—or, at least, to let her join one last practice. It wouldn't be
enough, but that was a problem for future Cyrene. Now, she'd do anything
to sing just one more time without committing homicide.

Not that her sisters would let her.

They were stubborn, and once their minds were made up, there could be no
changing them. Not even to prevent mass murder. Because how would she
learn not to be such a virtuoso if they caved in and let her back into
the band, even for an hour?

She wouldn't. At least, not by their logic.

Stubbornness was a trait that rioted through the family. It was why her
benighted parents had named her Cyrene, even after friends and family
members had urged them to reconsider, pointing out the obvious:

Cyrene the Siren was more joke than appellative.

She was a laughingstock, even among her sisters, from the moment she was
born. And now she was reduced to begging for musical crumbs because she
couldn't stand the thought of killing a bunch of musicians (who were, at
best, mediocre amateurs—but also the loveliest humans she knew) for
the chance to sing a few bars.

She was in the process of purchasing plane tickets when her work group
chat pinged. There, on her screen, was a sort of duet. An artist sang,
and somebody a world away from them harmonized after the fact.

It was as revolutionary as a key change, midsong.

Cyrene had never considered technology as a solution before. Music had
always been an immediate thing, a physical resonance that rang through
her and her sisters and spilled out into the waiting world, powerful
enough to doom ancient heroes and potent enough to plow through everyone
else in the process.

This was a far cry from those ancient performances. Currents of
possibility caught at Cyrene, lifting her imagination into flight.

The next day at work, Cyrene forced her colleagues to teach her how to
use the app that had made this miracle possible.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

Singing to a phone screen was trickier than it looked. The hardest part
wasn't keeping her lute on screen—though that was a challenge—but
imagining the voices that would join her, if she was lucky, and leaving
space for their additions.

She stuck to traditional songs at first. Just in case. But when her
renditions of those failed to trigger a global rash of app-related
deaths, she branched out. A few modern covers. A few originals.

Every day, she woke up to more duets. Nobody died. Or, at least, nobody
died because of *her.* Still, she didn't try to harmonize. What if it
got her booted from the app? What if her harmonies were so horrible the
entire internet rejected her, just like her sisters had done? What if—

She woke one morning to a flurry of comments on her latest video. The
usernames were familiar, and her stomach sank as she read.
<br /><br />

*melodicasings:* *Still a hopeless virtuoso, I see.* 🙃

*terrifictympani: Why don't you duet other people \@sirencyrene? Too
good to sing backup??*

*briobringsthenoise: What \@terrifictympani said!*

*aria-ready: You know what they say: Those who can, do. Those who can't
sing on the internet.*
<br /><br />

Cyrene didn't post anything for days after that. She'd moved on when her
sisters kicked her out of the family band. She'd even half-believed
their reasons for doing it. She'd taken the blame and dealt with the
consequences and clawed her way back to music the hard way. And even
after all that, they couldn't let her sing her songs.

She was reduced, again, to singing in the shower while her roommates
were away. Like her songs were something dirty to be rinsed down the
drain as soon as they swelled out of her and vibrated against the wet
tile walls.

Eventually, her notifications pulled her back to the app. There were
dozens of them. Dozens and dozens. A few were heckling, like her
sisters' had been. More were supportive. A handful of kind souls
reported her sisters' comments and blocked them.

Cyrene took their example, blocking one sister after the next, grief and
determination dueling in her chest like the Pint Place Pickers' banjo
player had sometimes done with one of the guitarists in their weekly jam
sessions. A rapid, aggressive battle of melodies with no clear winner.

Cyrene tried her first duet.

Harmony wobbled out of her in fits and starts. She didn't record it. Or
her second try. Or her third. She sang with strangers day after day,
leaving no more trace of her contribution than the heart button she
mashed on their songs.

After a week of practice, she was ready. Her harmonies still sometimes
soared too high. They still had a trick of nosediving so abruptly they
scraped ground before she'd fully noticed, turning songs into
catastrophes. But it didn't matter.

She picked a song.

She recorded a duet.

She shared it with her followers.

It wasn't quite the same as singing with her sisters. Nothing ever would
be, she suspected. But nobody died. And nobody kicked her off the app.

She sang as much and as often as she needed to. And even though she
started out alone, some strong magic, stronger even than the magic in
her blood, allowed others to join her, voices tangling with hers over
time and distance and spotty wifi.

She was a siren. Her melodies were capable of driving listeners to their
doom. Her live collaborations literally killed. But she was a singer,
nevertheless.

And so she sang.

Sometimes, the songs were hers. Sometimes, she was the one joining in.
It didn't matter to her much, which was which. She lost herself in the
blending of voices.

She'd finally discovered the currents that let her freewheel through a
song, spiraling up and swooping low, in perfect time with the others
soaring around her. A murmuration of her own, separated by time and
technology but *real* nonetheless.

Cyrene had found an entire world to harmonize with.


<p style="text-align: center;">© 2024 Courtney Floyd</p>


