---
title: A Future in Ashes
author: Matt Tighe
issue: Issue Fifteen, May 2024
description: "Cass can't bring herself to watch her brother burn. All the websites say you should, and that you should also watch as they scrape the ash up and put it in the urn. That you should not take your eyes off your loved one at all. <p>She doesn't understand how anyone could follow that advice. </p><p>She stays in the waiting area, sitting in one of the hard plastic chairs. There is a bereavement room with a couch and a small table where
people can sit and weep in something closer to comfort, but to Cass it feels too small and... full. Full of sadness and confusion and the ache
of stale loneliness. Her grief needs more space. Her grief is bigger than a small room already crowded with painful echoes.</p>" 
shortdescription: "Cass can't bring herself to watch her brother burn. All the websites say you should, and that you should also watch as they scrape the ash up and put it in the urn. That you should not take your eyes off your loved one at all. <p>She doesn't understand how anyone could follow that advice. </p><p>She stays in the waiting area, sitting in one of the hard plastic chairs. There is a bereavement room with a couch and a small table where
people can sit and weep in something closer to comfort, but to Cass it feels too small and... full. Full of sadness and confusion and the ache
of stale loneliness. Her grief needs more space. Her grief is bigger than a small room already crowded with painful echoes.</p>"
category: FICTION
date: "2024-05-29T01:02:00.000Z"
path: "/a-future-in-ashes"
featured: false
available: true

---

Cass can\'t bring herself to watch her brother burn. All the websites
say you should, and that you should also watch as they scrape the ash up
and put it in the urn. That you should not take your eyes off your loved
one at all.

She doesn\'t understand how anyone could follow that advice.

She stays in the waiting area, sitting in one of the hard plastic
chairs. There is a bereavement room with a couch and a small table where
people can sit and weep in something closer to comfort, but to Cass it
feels too small and... full. Full of sadness and confusion and the ache
of stale loneliness. Her grief needs more space. Her grief is bigger
than a small room already crowded with painful echoes.

The little man in the dark suit brings her the urn. Mr. Merchant? No,
that can\'t be right, and she can\'t quite remember. He stands in front
of her, his face a mask of smooth, professional sympathy.

\"Thank you,\" she says as she takes Warwick\'s ashes. It is far too
light. All that is left of a life.

She is dry-eyed. She thinks she may finally be cried out, at least in
public. Tonight will be different, though, when the house is quiet and
the memories creep from the shadows.

*Warwick, her big brother, combing her hair before school, his lower lip
caught between his teeth in concentration.*

*Her brother, rolling his eyes as she sings the Barbie and the Rockers
theme song and tries to get him to dance.*

*Her brother, lugging half broken furniture into their first shared
apartment, grunting and grinning at the same time.*

*Her brother. Gone.*

Mr. Maybe Merchant clears his throat. \"Would you check, please? We
pride ourselves on honesty, and your brother was very young. There
should be a lot of possibility left.\"

Cass doesn\'t want to, but she can't bring herself to refuse. And part
of her, a small squirming of curiosity down below all the blackness of
her hurt, wants to know what it is like.

The lid is a screw-top, wider than her palm. It comes off easily enough.

She touches the tip of one finger to the ash. She does it quickly, as if
shame is a slow thing that slinks in the corners of her mind and may not
notice if she is fast enough.

She has never felt what is left of a life cut short before. The ash is
fine and powdery, at least the top layer that she touches, but she
barely registers that.

The ash swirls upwards as if in a tiny updraft, even though the air is
still. The motes wrap her finger, and the grey flashes silver as it
touches her skin. She feels love. Love for her and others in Warwick\'s
life, love that is a deep well that has barely been tapped. There is
even love, tinged with anger, for their mother. Cass marvels at that,
even through the aching hollowness she feels.

And there is more in that touch of spent life. Growing from that love,
that well of acceptance, weaving upwards like a plant from good root
stock, is a solid chance for a good life. Not world-shaking, not the
makings of a person for the ages, but something tinged with contentment
and faith in others.

And faith in her.

All of it thrums with the beat of a small, contained hope, and a
steadiness in the face of hard times. What the ash holds is rich, and
full, and wasted.

All of it for nothing, now — at least for Warwick. Yet, it is the sort
of potential that could help people, if the ash is treated well and
parcelled out carefully. If it is given to people who need a bit of
hope. People who need a bit of faith to help them along. It could do
good — if she can bring herself to part with what is left of her
brother.

Cass rubs the ash between her thumb and forefinger and lets a whisper of
her brother\'s steadiness in. It falls into the deep cracks of grief
within her. It is Warwick, rolling her eyes at her, grinning at her,
combing her hair and fussing with her school uniform. It helps.

A little.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

Cass had started making Warwick\'s sandwich when she saw him across the
street. She had been keeping an eye out, because she always kept an eye
out, and it wasn\'t hard to do in the little cupboard of a kiosk she
worked in. It was hard, though, to not be distracted by the bustle of
people on the street. Hard to not watch them and wonder if their lives
were deep or shallow, if their baggage was made of heavy burlap sacks of
pain or perhaps was the finest and lightest of designer trauma. Hard not
to wonder how she compared.

Warwick ran across to the kiosk most days on his lunchbreak, and always
had the same gross thing — hot English mustard, raw onion slices and
pastrami on slightly stale rye bread. Not fresh bread, not toasted. Not
a roll. That was fine, except she couldn\'t sell such a monstrosity to
someone else if he didn\'t come, and she wasn\'t going to eat it. So she
only ever made it when she saw him coming.

She had been spreading the mustard when she heard the screech of tires
and the thump.

God, that thump.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

Cass holds the urn very carefully as she approaches the front door of
the little apartment she shared with Warwick. She is not really
surprised to see her mother waiting, leaning against the wall, her
posture casual but her eyes sharp. Her hair is longer than it was, and
there are a few grey roots showing. Her face is as angular and drawn as
ever. She looks tired. She looks angry. She looks the same as ever, in
the ways that matter.

\"Is that him?\" her mother asks.

\"Who else would it be?\" Cass asks.

Her mother\'s mouth tightens into that familiar line, and her finger
flicks at her half-burnt cigarette — *tick, tick*. It is as much a
sound of her childhood as the Barbie cartoon theme song. Even though the
urn is too light to hold a whole life, Cass\'s arms are aching and she
longs to put it down.

\"Come in,\" Cass says as she juggles the urn and opens the door. Her
mother goes as still as a spooked animal for a moment, and then follows
her daughter inside.

Cass cleans when she is bored, or upset, or stressed. A habit developed
from necessity when younger, perhaps. Now, often less than useful. The
apartment has been spotless for the last few days, the cracked linoleum
of the kitchen floor gleaming, the bench scrubbed and smelling of lemon.
Her mother looks around with as little interest as ever in such
domesticity. In her daughter\'s life.

Cass puts the urn down on the wobbly kitchen table where Warwick had
eaten cold toast a few days ago. Her mother glances at the remains of
her only son and then ashes her cigarette in the kitchen sink.

*Tick, tick.*

\"I want half,\" her mother says, and then takes a long draw of her
cigarette. Cass watches the tip glow red and a thin line of smoke trail
upward. The place is going to reek. Of smoke. Of the visit.

It is about what Cass expected but she still has to take a beat. This
woman, her mother, who wants half of her brother when she gave so little
of herself for so many years. Whose glazed eyes would sweep over them on
the rare days she was up and about before they had left for school. Her
mother, who wrapped herself in the smell of smoke and wine sweat as
armour against the world, who had always so despised her children, those
two totems of her tar-pit life.

But Cass knew that Warwick would not want them to fight. No, that is not
quite right. Warwick would not want Cass to get caught up once again.

\"We have each other,\" he would say sometimes, eating his stupid cold
toast, or putting his feet up on the scratched coffee table. \"I know
you can\'t forgive her. But in a way, she gave us that.\"

So steady and sure. So measured. He always found a way forward, a way to
be. She had always so wanted to be like him. That is what she thought,
anyway. But here, in the kitchen, Cass is not sure what she wants to be.

\"I\'m sorry you couldn\'t make the funeral,\" she says.

Her mother blinks. Then she sticks out her jaw in that way that is so
familiar even after so long. So sharp, so cutting.

\"I\'ve been busy. I\'ve got a life you know.\" Her gaze flickers a
little. Maybe there is a softening, maybe not. \"Work, and stuff.\"

Cass tries to think the best. It is what Warwick would suggest. Perhaps
part of her mother couldn\'t sit through the funeral of her dead son.
Perhaps part of her couldn\'t stand seeing him burn. The loss of an
anchor, real or perceived, is a frightening thing.

\"I\'m glad things are okay, Mum,\" Cass says. She doesn\'t know if she
means it.

Her mother breathes out smoke. It rises between them like a wall.

\"Half,\" she says again, and then taps her mostly done cigarette on the
top of the urn. \"He went young. That ash is worth a lot. I\'ve been
checking.\"

\"Okay,\" Cass says as she wipes the cigarette mark from the lid of the
urn. \"But I\'m not sure what to do. I have to think.\"

\"Oh, you need to think!\" her mother snaps. Her eyes are suddenly dark
with anger, but her voice is sharp with broken shards of satisfaction.
And pain. Always with the pain. Cass and Warwick, hurting their mother
by being. Cass does not understand the love for her mother she felt in
Warwick\'s ashes. The woman who gave nothing for so long, here to take
yet again.

\"You need to do what\'s right, girl. I\'m your mother. I deserve half,
at least. I could use the money.\" She looks around. \"You could too.\"

Cass tries to push her anger away. She is close to falling into the old
spiral — the one that pulls them both down as they hold on to each
other, as they tear at each other. Warwick would have told her to ease
back. That now they were out, living their lives, and they needed to let
their mother be herself.

As if she could be anything else.

Cass closes her eyes and puts one hand on the urn. It is full of love,
and hope, and all the good that Warwick may have done if he had lived.
She has no idea how he held on to all of that. How he built himself from
such things, when they had grown from the same spoilt ground.

There is so much that is good there, the remnants of him that he has
left behind. A promise of a future that will never be.

\"I need to think,\" she says again. And it is true, even though she
does not want it to be.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

She had thought the night would bring tears and the ache of old
memories. She had been sure the early hours would have seeped into and
through her, leaving her with exhaustion and the acrid taste of her
mother\'s visit in the back of her throat.

But no. Just that sound, that hollow thump, and the feel of mustard
scraping against dry bread. Both of those things, over and over, filling
up the darkness of her room until she had come to the kitchen and sat at
the wobbly table and stared at Warwick\'s ashes.

*The scrape of mustard.*

*The screech of brakes.*

*The thump.*

She does not think of the bright street and line of traffic as she runs
screaming, the mustardy knife still gripped in her fist.

She does not think of Warwick, smiling at her eight-year-old self as she
sings the Barbie song and dances.

She does not think of her mother, mouth tight, smoke curling up between
them in the lemony kitchen.

Cass spins the lid off the urn and plunges her hand in. She needs to
feel it. The ash twists up around her wrist, silvering as it moves and
touches and shows her.

The hope that things will get better. The love that was, that could have
gone on. The faith he had in her. The belief.

*We have each other,* Warwick almost whispers. *She gave us that, at
least.*

And Cass cries again, because she can feel it, feel it all. It is a lot,
and it is not enough, and it is all there is left.

And it has given her all the help that it can.

<p style="text-align: center;">#</p>

Her mother scoffs when Cass meets her at the door.

\"Won\'t let me in?\" she asks, but it is not really asking. She is
hungry to be kept out. To push, and be pushed back. You can be sure of
your place in someone\'s world if you are always an obstacle.

\"I don\'t like the cigarettes,\" Cass says. \"But you can come in if
you won\'t smoke.\"

Her mother eyes her for a moment and then takes a cigarette from her
pack and lights it.

\"Here is fine,\" she says, smoke spilling out of her mouth as she
speaks.

Cass expected nothing else. She bends and retrieves the urn from the
floor and holds it out.

\"Take it,\" she says.

Her mother narrows her eyes. \"What\'s the catch?\"

Cass shakes her head. \"No catch.\"

She can\'t control what her mother will do with it. She may just sell
it. She probably will. But Cass thinks she may be curious. They are so
very different, but Cass thinks her mother may think of Warwick, back in
a quiet moment of wherever she is calling home. Maybe in the early
hours, like her daughter did. If she does, she may seek more than her
own faded memories. She may just wonder what the ash feels like. Cass
can hope for these things. It is only a small hope, but it is there.

A whole life can be built on small hope.

\"It\'s worth a lot,\" her mother says, still wary.

*Warwick, combing her hair, concentrating so hard.*

*Warwick, laughing as Cass sings and dances.*

Love for their mother. Faith in Cass. A chance for a different future.

\"It is,\" Cass says, and smiles as she begins to cry. \"Which is why
I\'d like you to have it.\"


<p style="text-align: center;">© 2024 Matt Tighe </p>


