---
title: Ten Ways of Looking at Snow, Reflected Off an Obsidian Armor
authors:
    - Avra Margariti
issue: Issue Fifteen, May 2024
description: "1. <p>You were cruel when we first met. </p><p>It would have been easy to claim I was sleepwalking, under your compulsion. But the truth was, I sought you out that midwinter night, in my spiderweb-flimsy nightgown and bruised, bare feet, chasing after a woodland vista I was taught through catechisms and beatings always to avoid. I left my bed in the smallest of hours despite parents and priests cautioning I stay away from the Erl-Queen's territory. </p><p>You were cruel, but you were honest too, unlike the honey-concealed callousness of my family and villagefolk. Wrapped in obsidian armor, you inspected me through the tenebrous gaps of your visor and said in a crushed-velvet voice, &quot;My horse will cross this part of the woods once, and only once. It matters not to me if you join me or not.&quot;</p>" 
shortdescription: "1. <p>You were cruel when we first met. </p><p>It would have been easy to claim I was sleepwalking, under your compulsion. But the truth was, I sought you out that midwinter night, in my spiderweb-flimsy nightgown and bruised, bare feet, chasing after a woodland vista I was taught through catechisms and beatings always to avoid. I left my bed in the smallest of hours despite parents and priests cautioning I stay away from the Erl-Queen's territory.</p><p>You were cruel, but you were honest too, unlike the honey-concealed callousness of my family and villagefolk. Wrapped in obsidian armor, you inspected me through the tenebrous gaps of your visor and said in a crushed-velvet voice, &quot;My horse will cross this part of the woods once, and only once. It matters not to me if you join me or not.&quot;</p>"
category: FICTION
date: "2024-05-29T01:06:00.000Z"
path: "/ten-ways-of-looking-at-snow-reflected-off-an-obsidian-armor"
featured: false
available: true

---

1\.

You were cruel when we first met.

It would have been easy to claim I was sleepwalking, under your
compulsion. But the truth was, I sought you out that midwinter night,
in my spiderweb-flimsy nightgown and bruised, bare feet, chasing after
a woodland vista I was taught through catechisms and beatings always
to avoid. I left my bed in the smallest of hours despite parents and
priests cautioning I stay away from the Erl-Queen's territory.

You were cruel, but you were honest too, unlike the honey-concealed
callousness of my family and villagefolk. Wrapped in obsidian armor,
you inspected me through the tenebrous gaps of your visor and said in
a crushed-velvet voice, "My horse will cross this part of the woods
once, and only once. It matters not to me if you join me or not."

My breath expelled hoary halos while, all around us, bristly
snowflakes fell. They landed like cigarette burns on my traitorous
tongue.

You were a child-thief, a child-killer, though I was a child no
longer. When you offered me your frosted, gauntleted hand, I took it.
It burned my bare fingers nearly to the bone.

I did not cry, not then. Only climbed behind you on your mare of night
and snow.
<br /><br />

2\.

We galloped bareback past brambles and blackthorn, fronds frozen stiff
and brittle. The winter wind drew moisture to my eyes, each gust a
toothed kiss. My tears formed lilliputian stalactites hanging off my
eyelashes, the dampness of my nasal lining.

"What do you need from me?" I asked near the void where your ear might
have been under the full-bodied armor of volcanic glass.

I imagined you ruled over a palace made of sculpted ice I would have
to clean and chisel every day, teeth chattering, lips turning the blue
of asphyxiated babies. Still, it would have been an improvement on my
prior circumstances.

You grunted deep in your chest plate, for you did not understand the
question, the need a primordial being such as you might have. Might
name.

So I tried again: "What will you take from me?"

"Ten years of your life," you said, as we rode through the
root-obstacled forest, and frozen pine needles made bloody lacework of
my cheeks. You noticed and gave me a scarlet-stained ermine to wrap
around my body. It smelled like chthonic things and ancient ice
deposits. Soaked through the pelt were the pheromones of the hunt.

I should have asked sooner after the price of your boon. But my family
never taught me to barter with the otherworldly creatures of the
woods. Later, I would find out that, just this once, you had allowed
yourself to be selfish, on top of cruel. Then again, so was I. Because
the prospect of saying no to you, returning to a life unlived, was too
terrible to contemplate.

(You would teach me, many winters later, why one does not agree to a
contract one cannot read.)

"Will you keep me as your wife?" I asked, and was that dread or hope
wing-beating in my chest?

Iron-shod hooves displaced snow as we rode on. The snow was thicker
than mounds of salt tossed behind closed doors, barring winter witches
from entry. Yet when I left home past midnight, the seal let me out,
salt disturbed by the opening of the rust-hinged door.

You rumbled a sound through the visor, disgruntled. Was there flesh
behind the armor, or only bone? Only ice?

"Your duties to me will be that of a traveling companion."

I had never traveled anywhere outside the borders of my tiny village.
The thought of several worlds sprawling before me, gelid and pristine,
was like a sip of stolen church wine, or a kiss stolen off the
priest's daughter.

Terrifying; intoxicating.
<br /><br />

3\.

During our first winter together, you asked me to build myself an
armor. We stopped at a thicket, where the understory slept in sharp
dormancy and the membrane between worlds was as thin as the wings of a
damselfly. Equine breath steamed the nocturnal air, lathering it in
hoary plumes.

I blinked and, as above, so below, the thicket had now shifted to its
subterranean counterpart: green gone black, wind gone stale.

It soon became apparent we weren't alone.

"What are they doing?" I asked you over the clang of metal and
splintering of wood. We watched from a safe distance as the hobgoblins
swung their axes against the Great Tree, its trunk bigger than my
family's hut, vanishing through the great stone ceiling above. So hard
the kallikantzaroi worked that their furry limbs sweated; so cold it
was that their perspiration crystallized like opals across their dark
coats, strung itself like gem garlands between their horns.

"They are the denizens of the underworld," you replied, "and they
spend all year long trying to fell the tree that keeps the world below
and the world above from meeting."

"Do they ever succeed?" I asked. I wouldn't have minded the worlds
falling apart before this winter. But now, I couldn't abide it. Not
when I had promised you ten winters of my life.

"No. When the Tree is mere seconds away from collapse, the
kallikantzaroi are compelled to leave their den and wander the earth
for the twelve days to the Epiphany. They steal the food left to cool
on windowsills and terrorize the humans, cackling as they run from the
burn of the priests' holy water. That is when the doorway is left
hanging open." You looked at me, anticipatory. When had I learned to
read your emotions through the obsidian armor? "That is when the
creatures' forge gapes empty. And that is where you build your armor."

True to your words, the chthonic dwellers crawled and bounded toward
their mass exodus, the Great Tree hanging on by a thread of bark with
an iron will.

Your mare galloped through underground passageways of sulfur and fire
and glimmery onyx stone. There were scars in the walls and water
trickling like rusted windchimes from an unseen distance.

We reached a cave-like structure—a forge.

"Your armor is no trivial matter," you told me, voice tinny yet
steadfast through your visor. "It is the only thing that will keep you
safe from the bite of snow and wind during our travels."

"What about you?" I asked. "Are you ever warm?"

You hesitated. "That's not what I said. Safety does not always equal
warmth."

I thought about it as I toiled away in the forge, melting infernal
metal and reshaping it into the approximation of an armor. Several
times I burned my fingers, only my own spit to cool them down. My
muscles strained; I sweated and struggled. And soon, I beheld my own
obsidian armor slowly take form.

You watched unrelentingly but did not offer to help.

I thought about your words. How, you weren't warm, but so far, you
were the safest thing I knew.
<br /><br />

4\.

I believe it was when we joined the Wild Hunt that I first realized.

"You save the children," I said, an ebullience raking across my
ribcage—just because it was a welcome awareness, didn't mean there
was no pain. "It's what you do, isn't it? Despite the legends warning
of the contrary."

I was far from a child when I was taken by you—when I gave myself to
you. Yet, through the short winter days and longer nights, you had
protected me all the same.

You were looking off into the rime-veiled distance, saddled in
melancholy like a panting horse. "Perhaps."

"Were you ever a child too?" I asked, reaching out for your burning
armor. I never knew when you would flinch away or allow the skinless
contact.

"There is frost settled over my heart," you said, as if that was
answer enough. Eventually, your body unraveled itself. I leaned my
cheek against your armor of frost and bite, and it burned the outer
layers of my epidermis, rendered me brand new. And underneath my own
armor, I felt frost settle, too. Just because it hurt, didn't mean it
wasn't welcome.

By then, the Hunt was well underway, a trumpet heralding the Fae
Queen's fleet of poison-dart frogs, gigantic centipedes, scintillating
dragonflies, and black-coated moles. Pixies rode on each animal,
brandishing weapons and war cries.

We rode too through the white-clad forest on your midnight mare, and I
held tight to your rigid-dressed body, with the face always hidden
from me—if there was one such face underneath. Yet I still saw you.
I was beginning to shed my own veil of village preconceptions as well.

We rode with the Queen and her undead cavalcade, her howling fae, the
yearly, righteous blood-hunger.

There were children running through the brush: human or half-deities
or other rejects, struggling to catch up to their uncaringly fleeing
parents. Those children got lost in fern and ford, tripped by
saphenous veins and roots, like the forest, too, was alive and
hungering. They were the children of wrongdoers in the resinous eyes
of the forest, and they were collateral damage, scapegoats abandoned
in their craven parents' stead.

I saw how a wave of your gunmetal-gray gauntlet redirected poison
arrows, thrown stones, fae blasts of magic. Even as you reveled in the
pursuit, the hunting of the deserving, you made sure their children
were spared, hidden away in tree hollows turned abditories—secret
places where precious things are kept.

When the fair folk caught the adult humans that had tried to hurt the
folk first—headhunters selling severed fairy wings, pixie dust, and
bottled banshee wails in the black market—you let their blood shed,
crimsoning the white snow's crimped edges.

The Wild Hunt ululated. The blood painted your armor darker, a
vermillion veneer keeping you—us—safe from stray arrows and
triumph-volatile spells. You turned to me and your metallic finger
rimed a rune of protection against my forehead, too.

The Wild Hunt raged on now that justice had been dealt. But the
children of the sinners were safe.

It made me wonder where you'd come from. If it was from a place as bad
as mine. If all children were doomed to become either riders or prey.
<br /><br />

5\.

What did we survive on, those ten long years?

Berries red and purple as the bruises and cuts once placed upon my
body, now bursting tart and sweet upon my tongue.

Fragrant tea made of pine needles boiled over the fire, the frost upon
them twirling in my cauldron like a thing sublimated, given grander
purpose.

The meat of the squirrel and pheasant, and more protein still from
speckled quail eggs. I prayed thanks to each creature that fed me with
the labor of its flesh.

"Won't you eat?" I asked you. My armor, though it shared your obsidian
plating, did not have a visor to occlude me from the world. You could
see my face plain as dawn, but still you hid from me behind your
visor. Were you an ugly or a beautiful woman? Were you a woman at all?

But perhaps those questions beaten into me by my village bore no
significance to our reality.

"Seeing you eat is enough to sustain me," you eventually replied.

Not for the first time, I wondered: was yours a true lack of need, or
leftover ascetism from your own past?

Then, one fog-wreathed winter, we passed through a town feast,
everything ornamented in green and red. Everything smelling of fir and
spice.

The town people were waiting for the green knight's arrival. When you
rode into the square in your obsidian armor, and I, your companion in
my thinner, lighter coverings, the people immediately laid mulled wine
and anise bread upon our feet.

You were reluctant to join the festivities of lute music and folk
dancing, but we watched from the distance, as our mare drunk her fill
from a trough of meltwater.

Out the corner of my eye I watched you shove a bite of flaky bread
through your visor and sigh as if in memory of yeast and warmth.

I watched the village girls giggle and dance arm in arm, and I sidled
closer to you, close enough for our armors to touch.

You let me.
<br /><br />

6\.

We measured the passage of time in winters. Ten, as many as I had
promised you, back when I didn't know better (and I didn't want to
learn, either). Oh blackbirds, don't ask me to recount the springs and
summers. When you got fatigued enough to feel your ageless years
hammering against your armor. When your frost refused to yield to the
sun's glare. When I had to shield my aching eyes and lead the horse
through the forest as you slumbered against me. And through each
meadow we crossed, we scattered the dewdrops of molten snow the
thirsty earth craved; we brought the icicles to combat the
spiderwebbed-dirt drought. When I hid your glacial body in abandoned
animal burrows, hoping to gift you elusive rest, I did not lift your
visor, even though I could have. I gulped down my curiosity and did
not peek at whatever sluggish darkness eddied underneath.

The people rejoiced in the secret rain they couldn't have known was
our doing. Once, I witnessed thirsty children playing in the puddles
our hoof-prints had summoned forth, watched them drink and swim and
splash each other. Laughing.

You were needed, was the thing.

You were a needed thing.

I was a needy thing.

But each summer brought forth the hibernation. And each winter meant
our time together was galloping closer to its completion.
<br /><br />

7\.

Another chapped-lipped winter, we rode to a village where all the
children had disappeared overnight. Their parents cried and accused us
of stealing them away for our nefarious purposes. They sharpened their
rakes and other metal implements, but those angry adults never turned
their probing gazes inward. Never looked headlong at the abuse they
had doled out, the backbreaking work of little fingers in frigid
fields, the marrying the children off too young or sending them away
to become parapaidia—little more than servants for the families of
the rich.

You were angry, too. Your breath lathered the night white like a
raging horse's coat. You swiped your gauntlet, trembling, and chips of
glaucous ice hurtled through the air to lodge into the villagers'
eyes. I admit—I flinched then. Something about that village
awakening murky memories of my own.

The adults cried as the ice showed them a parade of their wrongdoings,
the reasons why all their children had chosen to run away as one body,
one beast.

While the village rioted, we bedded down in an abandoned stable over
musky hay. Our mare warmed us with her candescent breath. We huddled
close, armor to obsidian armor, while the villagers screamed and
lamented their untended hearths and fields. In the young hours of
morning, I sent out my listless consciousness until I found the
missing children.

They were deep underground, small seeds warmed by the earth's igneous
core, huddled together like you and I were among the hay. The children
sighed in warm and content dreams, biding their time until they were
all grown, ready to send out shoots and crawl back into the anemic
winter light.
<br /><br />

8\.

The snow kept falling. In our cave of animal furs and bones, I told
you, "You keep running away from me."

Our bed was cold when you were there, colder when you were not. And
lately, more and more, I would wake up to find the indentation of your
armored body in the ermines, the ivory pelt smelling of pine needles
and absence like an abscessed tooth.

Perhaps we shouldn't have laid together. My parents would have told us
that it's sin, had I not left them behind many winters ago. Another
soul might say I was too young for you; me, traversing my third decade
on this earth; you, ancient as silica cooling into an obsidian bed.

I was your charge and you, my savior.

No matter. When we fucked, my fist disappeared inside your chest
plate, sinking into some frigid lake underneath, where your earthly
body should have been. My fingers perforated the ice, then kept going.
Tentacles of torpor-languid beasts caressed me in return. Great
blackbird beaks nibbled at me from inside your core.

I brushed against your heart once. I don't care what you claimed about
being only ever cold—that muscle pulsed lava-hot against my curled
knuckles.

I was inside you more and more lately, hoping to soothe your restless
wanderings; how each time, you would look at the white-toothed mouth
of our cave and beyond with something like duty, like longing. The
embers sizzled in our firepit. The substance behind your visor did,
too.

"Stay!" I bellowed, the command echoing through our cave like
animal-speak.

But you had already disappeared with a cool gust of wind, like a sigh.
<br /><br />

9\.

"Erl-Queen, make another covenant with me," I raged, I begged, I
cajoled. You shook your head, and weak winter sunlight refracted off
primordial ice deposits in prismatic regret. It felt like my burning
eyes would never recover from you.

So I launched myself into hunter traps like a rabbit, just so you
could save me and treat my suppurating wounds. I wanted to tie you to
me beyond our twain fistfuls of winters. I thought about breaking the
contract, abandoning you first so I wouldn't be the one left behind.

You were cruel, but then so was I.

I took a blade of ice to your throat. A last resort. My hot tears
steamed in the space between us when they hit your impenetrable neck
armor.

Another decade. Another boon. Please.

But again you sadly shook your head no, no.

That was what I got for being too desperate to ask sooner after the
rules of our agreement. How a traveling companion could only make a
deal once.
<br /><br />

10\.

In our tenth winter together, I wake up alone by the frozen pond where
we went to sleep under a blanket of ferns, a canopy of molten stars.

I look all around the white stillness, but you are not there beside
me. Your armor, too, is missing. When I lean over the mirrored pond,
my obsidian chest plate glints darkly, the armor's visor having slid
shut, then fused over my face during the frostbitten night. My head is
haloed by a crown of icicles, its reflection shimmering in the
polished water.

A blackbird caws, slicing through the pallid dreamscape, to land upon
the black mare waiting for me with her breath foaming the dawn.

I place a final kiss upon my reflection, then climb onto my mare of
night and snow the way I first did ten winters ago.

Together, we ride through the woods, and each land we cross, we cross
only once.


<p style="text-align: center;">© 2024 Avra Margariti </p>


